{{wikipedia}}

==English==
===Etymology===
*One view is that the name of the tribe and country originated from the name of their  illustrious ancient warrior called  ''Kamboja''. This [[warrior]] had won the prized [[Daivi (Divine) Sword]] from  celebrated [[Vedic]] king  [[Kuvalashava]] of [[Kosala]] ( MBH 12/166/77).

* [[Yasaka]] defines Kamboja as  Kambala+bhojah and Kamaniya+bhoja. As these people  enjoyed kambalas, (i.e  were Kambal.bhojas) and the beautiful or desirable (kamaniya) things  (i.e were 'kamaniya.bhojah'), hence they were called Kamboja  (Yasaka's etymology of  Kamboja,  [[Nirukuta]] 2/2).

*''Kamaniyabhoja'' of  Yasaka literally implies  ''Handsome Bhoja'' (Dr Moti Chandra).  ''Bhoja'' is an aspirated [[Sanskrit]] equivalent of  [[Iranian]] ''Boja'' and it means 'king'  (Pirat, Dr K. Elst). This suggests that Kambojas may have been so called because they were a handsome race, or else their kings were very  handsome. 

*Alternative view is that Kamboja derived from ''Kam+boja''. The Kambojas were ''Bojas'' or ''Lords'' of a region called ''Kam'' or ''Kum'' hence came to be called Kambojas or Kambhojas (Dr H. C. Seth).

===Pronunciation===
*kum’bo’ja

===Noun===
'''Kamboja'''  (''plural''  [[Kambojas]])

* Name of an ancient [[Indo-Iranian]] [[Kshatriya]] i.e warrior [[clan]] of [[Indo-European]] family. 
* Name of ancient country founded and inhabited by the Kambojas. Listed as one of the sixteen great nations in ancient [[Buddhist]] literature. North to [[Gandhara]], it originally believed to have comprised [[Badakshan]], [[Pamir]]s and region as far as [[Zerafshan]] valley in [[Sogdiana]].
* Prince of the Kambojas. 
* A descendent of the Kamboja Kshatriyas.
* A horse raised and bred in Kamboja (also [[Kambojaka]]).
* An elephant native to Kamboja  (also [[Kambu]]).
* Silver or gold native to Kamboja (also Kambu).
* Name of conch or shell native to Kamboja (also Kambu).
* Name of Supari or Punnag  (Rottleria tinctoria) native to Kamboja.
* Somavalak or Karanj native to Kamboja.
* Gold or silver bracelet, or bracelet in general (also Kambu).
* Name of a mountain located in ancient Kamboja  [[(Afghanistan)]] famous for its Kambu, [[Kambuka]] or [[Kambujika]] silver.
* Name of a [[Raaga]]/[[Raagini]] (musical mode) believed to have originated in ancient Kamboja land (also called as [[Kamboji]] or [[Kambhoji]]).

===Adjective===
# Relating to Kamboja or the Kambojas.

====Variant spellings====
#[[Kamboya]] or [[Kamboy]]/[[Kambo]]  ([[Shahbazgarhi]] [[Edicts]] of king [[Ashoka]]).
#[[Kaamboja]]
#[[Kambhoja]]
#[[Kambojika]] or [[Kambojaka]]
#[[Kaambhoja]]
#[[Kumbhoja]]
#[[Camboja]]
#[[Kambuja]]
#[[Cambuja]]
#[[Kambu]]  ([[Markendeya Purana]] (8.1-6), [[Devi Mahatam]] 5.28.1-12)
#[[Kaboja]] (ancient [[Sinhalese]] cave inscriptions)
#[[Kamuia]] or [[Kamuio]]
#cf: [[Kambujiya]] or perhaps [[Kambaujiya]]/[[Kamboujiya]] of Old Persian inscriptions. Kambujiya was the name of several great [[Persian]] [[monarchs]] of [[Achaemenid]] line. The same name appears as C-n-b-n-z-y in [[Aramaic]], Kambuzia in [[Assyran]], Kambythet in [[Egyptian]], Kam-bu-zi-ia in [[Akkadian]], Kan-bu-zi-ia in [[Elemite]], and Kanpuziya in [[Susian]] language. Dr C. Lassen, Dr E. Kuhn, Dr S. Levi, Dr M. Witzel and others have traced ethnic name Kamboja in the Persian Kambujiya ([[Cambyses]] of the Greeks).