==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛtʃ|-ɛtʃ]]

===Noun===

'''ketch'''
#A fore and aft rigged sailing vessel with two masts, main and mizzen, the mizzen being stepped forward of the rudder post.  cf. [[yawl]].

===Verb===

'''to ketch'''

# To catch. - substandard spelling.
#*1815 D. HUMPHREYS Yankey in England I. 21, I guess, he is trying to '''ketch''' mebut it won't du. I'm tu old a bird to be '''ketch'd''' with chaff. 
#*1865 DICKENS Mut. Fr. II. IV. xv. 287 Wot is it, lambs, as they '''ketches''' in seas, rivers, lakes, and ponds? a1883 [see KNUCK 2]. #*1911 E. WHARTON Ethan Frome ii. 60 You'll '''ketch''' your death. The fire's out long ago. 
#*1916 W. O. BRADLEY Stories & Speeches 18 You'll never '''ketch''' me hollerin' at no Republican gatherin'. 
#*1929 H. W. ODUM in A. Dundes Mother Wit (1973) 184 If so you gonna '''ketch''' hell. 1967 Atlantic Monthly Apr. 103/1 You heard about that joke a dollar down and a dollar when you ketch me? 
#*1968 S. STUCKEY in A. Chapman New Black Voices (1972) 445 Run, nigger, run, de patrollers will '''ketch''' you.

===Etymology===
From Jack Ketch. A Hangman in the 17th Century.
# Rare. To hang.
#*1681 T. FLATMAN Heraclitus Ridens No. 14 'Squire Ketch rejoices as much to hear of a new Vox, as an old Sexton does to hear of a new Delight. Ibid. No. 18 Well! If he has a mind to be '''Ketch'd''', speed him say I. #*1840 Fraser's Mag. XXI. 210 Ignorant of many of the secrets of '''ketchcraft'''. 
#*1859 MATSELL Vocab. s.v. (Farmer), I'll '''ketch''' you; I'll hang you.
 

[[vi:ketch]]
[[zh:ketch]]