==English==

===Etymology===
Old English [[cæg|cǣġ]].

===Pronunciation===
*kē, /kiː/, /ki:

===Homophones===
*[[cay]] (''one pronunciation''), [[quay]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# An object designed to open and close a [[lock]].
# An object designed to fit between two other objects (such as a shaft and a wheel) in a mechanism and maintain the orientation between them.
# A crucial step or requirement.
#:''the '''key''' to solving this problem...''
#:''the '''key''' to winning this game''
# One of several small, usually square buttons on a typewriter or computer keyboard, most of which generally correspond to a particular letter of the alphabet, numeral, or special symbol.
#:''Press the Escape '''key'''.''
# One of a number of rectangular moving parts on a piano or musical keyboard, each causing a particular sound or note to be produced.
# A scale of musical notes on which a composition is based
#:''The '''key''' of B-flat major''
# A device used to transmit [[Morse code]].
# (''[[cryptography]]'') A piece of information (e.g. a [[passphrase]]) used to [[encode]] or [[decode]] a message or messages.
# {{computing}}: In a [[database]], a [[field]] of a [[relation]] constrained to be unique.
# {{computing}}: In a database, a [[field]] in a record that is used as a search argument (but is not necessarily unique).
# {{computing}}: A value that uniquely identifies an entry in an [[associative array]].
# {{basketball}}: The free-throw lane together with the circle surrounding the freethrow line, the freethrow lane having formerly been narrower, giving the area the shape of a [[skeleton key]] hole.
#:''He shoots from the top of the '''key'''.''
# (''also'' '''[[cay]]''') One of a string of small islands.
#:"the Florida '''Keys'''"
# A small guide explaining the symbols or terminology of a document.
#: ''The '''key''' says that ''A'' stands for the accounting department.''

====Translations====

'''device designed to open and close a lock'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[çelës]] ''m''
*Breton: [[alhwez]] ''m''
*Catalan: [[clau]] ''f''
*Croatian: [[ključ]] ''m''
*Czech: [[klič]] ''m''
*Danish: [[nøgle]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[sleutel]] ''de''
*Esperanto: [[ŝlosilo]]
*Finnish: [[avain]]
*French: [[clef]] {{f}}, [[clé]] {{f}}
*German: [[Schlüssel]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[kulcs]]
*Indonesian : [[kunci]]
*Italian: [[chiave]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[kagi]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[kilîl]] {{m}}, [[kilîd]] {{m}}, [[mift]] {{m}}, [[enextar]] {{m}}
*Latin: [[clavis]]
*Lithuanian: [[raktas]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[nøkkel]] {{m}}
*[[Occitan]]: [[clau]]
*Old English: [[cæg|cǣġ]]
*Polish: [[klucz]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[chave]]
*Romanian: [[cheie]] {{f}}
*Sardinian (Campidanese): [[crai]] ''f''
*Sardinian (Nugorese): [[crae]] ''f''
*Slovene: [[ključ]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[llave]] {{f}}
*Swahili: [[ufunguo]], [[funguo]] ''pl (noun 11/14)''
*Swedish: [[nyckel]] {{c}}
*Tamazight: [[ⵜⴰⵙⴰⵔⵓⵜ]] (tasarut) ''f''
*Telugu: [[తాళంచెవి]] (taaLamchevi)
*Turkish: [[anahtar]]
{{bottom}}

'''object used to maintain the orientation between two others'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''crucial step'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[avain]]
*French: [[clef]] {{f}}, [[clé]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[segredo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[nyckel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''button on a typewriter or computer keyboard'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[tast]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[toets]] {{m}} (3)
*Finnish: [[näppäin]]
*French: [[touche]] {{f}}
*German: [[Taste#German|Taste]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[tasto]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Lithuanian: [[klavišas]] {{m}}
*Norwegian<!--do not wikify-->: [[tast]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[tecla]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[tipka]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[tecla]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[tangent]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''part of a piano or musical keyboard'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[tangent]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[toets]] {{m}} (3)
*Finnish: [[kosketin]]
*German: [[Taste#German|Taste]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[tasto]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Lithuanian: [[klavišas]] {{m}}
*Norwegian<!--do not wikify-->: [[tangent]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[tipka]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[tecla]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[tangent]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''scale of musical notes'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nøgle]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[toonladder]] ''de''
*Finnish: [[sävellaji]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[clave]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[tonart]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''device used to transmit Morse code'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[avain]], [[morseavain]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[nyckel]] {{c}}, [[morsenyckel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''cryptography: piece of information used to encode or decode'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nøgle]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[sleutel]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[avain]], [[salakirjoitusavain]]
*French: [[clef]] {{f}}, [[clé]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
|}
*Lithuanian: [[raktas]] {{m}}
*Norwegian<!--do not wikify-->: [[nøkkel]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[chave]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[ključ]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[nyckel]] {{c}}
|}

'''computing: field of a database constrained to be unique'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nøgle]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[avain]], [[avainkenttä]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[chave]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''computing: field in a record used as a search argument'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nøgle]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[avain]], [[avainkenttä]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[chave]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[nyckel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''computing: value uniquely identifying entry in associative array'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nøgle]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[avain]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[nyckel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''in basketball'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[garrafão]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''small island'''
{{top}}
*Lithuanian: approxim. [[salelė]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: approx. [[skär]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''small guide explaining symbols or terminology'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[signaturforklaring]] {{c}}, [[nøgle]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[selite]], [[merkkienselite]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[nyckel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[ключ]] {{m}} (1, 5), [[клавиш]] {{m}} (3, 4)
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[klíč]] {{m}} (1, 5), [[klávesa]] {{f}}  (3, 4)
*{{ttbc|Farsi}}: [[کلید]] (Kelid)
*{{ttbc|Frisian}}: [[kaai]] (1, 3), [[knop]] (3)
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[מפתח]] {{m}} (1)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[kulcs]] (1), [[billentyű]] (3, 4)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[鍵]] (かぎ, kagi) (1), [[鍵]] (けん, ken) (3, 4)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[cheie]] {{f}} (1), [[tastă]] {{f}} (3)
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[ключ]] (1), [[клавиша]] (3, 4)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[kľúč]] {{m}} (1, 5), [[kláves]] {{m}} (3, 4)

===Adjective===
'''key'''

# Indispensable.
#:''a '''key''' player''
#:''He is the '''key''' witness.''
# Important, salient.
#:''She makes several '''key''' points''

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|key||}}

# To fit (a lock) with a key.
# To fit (pieces of a mechanical assembly) with a key to maintain the orientation between them.
# (''[[telegraphy]] and [[radio telegraphy]]'') To depress (a telegraph key).
# (''[[radio]]'') To operate (the transmitter switch of a two-way radio).
# {{computing}}: (''more usually'' '''to key in''') To [[enter]] (information) by typing on a [[keyboard]] or [[keypad]].
#:'''''Key''' in your user ID.''

'''fit (a lock) with a key'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fit (pieces of a mechanical assembly) with a key'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''telegraphy: depress (a telegraph key)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''radio: operate (transmitter switch of a two-way radio)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''computing: enter (information)'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[syöttää]], [[näppäillä]], [[kirjoittaa]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[digitar]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[keyboard]]
*[[keychain]]
*[[keyhole]]
*[[keynote]]
*[[keypad]]
*[[keystone]]
*[[keystroke]]
*[[key in]]
*[[key off]]
*[[key signature]]
*[[public-key cryptography]]
*[[skeleton key]]

----

==Kurdish==
===Soranî Kurdish===
====Adverb====
'''key'''

# [[when]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[es:key]]
[[fr:key]]
[[io:key]]
[[it:key]]
[[ku:key]]
[[hu:key]]
[[nl:key]]
[[pl:key]]
[[ru:key]]
[[sr:key]]
[[fi:key]]
[[sv:key]]
[[ta:key]]
[[zh:key]]