'''King Cotton''' is a [[phrase]] used in the [[Southern United States]].  The phrase was used mainly by Southern [[politician]]s and authors who wanted to illustrate the importance of the [[agriculture|crop]] to southern economy. This is because Southern [[plantation]]s generated three-fourths of the world's [[cotton]] supply.<ref>http://college.hmco.com/history/readerscomp/gahff/html/ff_108100_kingcotton.htm</ref> 
In particular, after the invention of the [[cotton gin]] the production of cotton surpassed that of [[tobacco]] in the south and became the dominant [[cash crop]].  

Southerners knew their survival depended on the sympathy of Europe to offset [[Union (American Civil War)|Union]] power. They believed that cotton was so essential to the European powers that they would intervene in any civil war. As Senator [[James Hammond]] of South Carolina said in the Senate: "What would happen if no cotton was [sic] furnished for three years? I will not stop to depict what every one can imagine, but this is certain: England would topple headlong and carry the whole civilized world with her, save the South. No, you dare not make war upon cotton. No power on earth dares to make war upon it. Cotton is king." <ref>http://www.sewanee.edu/faculty/Willis/Civil_War/documents/HammondCotton.html</ref> 

When war broke out the Confederates voluntarily decided to refuse to export their cotton to Europe. This was a grass roots decision, not one made by the Confederate government.  The idea was that this [[cotton diplomacy]] would force Europe to intervene.  European states, did not, however, intervene and, with Lincoln imposing a blockade, the South was unable to move its millions of bales of cotton. Indeed, Britain and France discovered that if they wanted to get any American cotton they would have to get it from the North. Cotton production also increased in other parts of the world, like [[India]] and [[Egypt]], to meet the demand.  

==Notes==
<div class="references-small">
<references/>
</div>

==See also==
* [[Eli Whitney]]
* [[Boll Weevil]]
* [[Cotton]]

==References==
* Frank Lawrence Owsley, ''King Cotton Diplomacy: Foreign relations of the Confederate States of America'' (1931)

*http://college.hmco.com/history/readerscomp/gahff/html/ff_108100_kingcotton.htm
*"'''King Cotton.'''" <u>[[Encyclopædia Britannica]]</u>. [[2005]]. Encyclopædia Britannica Premium Service 1 July 2005 [http://www.britannica.com/eb/article?tocId=9045509].
*Boyer, ''The Enduring Vision''. 4th Edition

==External links==
* [http://www.sonofthesouth.net/leefoundation/civil-war/1861/september/king-cotton.htm Cotton King Cartoon]
*[http://www.civilwarhome.com/kingcotton.htm King Cotton]

[[Category:Confederate States of America]]
[[Category:Fibers]]
[[Category:Southern United States]]


{{vocab-stub}}