==English==

===Etymology===
Afrikaans: kits : instant  + konstabel: constable.

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

#(obsolete) {{slang}} A newly [[deputized]] [[constable]] in the South African Police Services during the last days of [[apartheid]] ; they were noted for their [[zealous]]ness and utter lack of police procedure.  Their official name was special policeman.
#*During 1987 sixteen '''kitskonstabels''' were sent to Bhongolethu to police the area after their six weeks of training. The kitskonstabels proved to be a law unto themselves - between September 1987 and January 1988 less than six months, at least six activist were injured by '''kitskonstabels''' a remarkable series of incidents, involving the '''kitskonstabels''' was recorded by the police themselves in the Bhongolethu police station incident book. [http://www.doj.gov.za/trc/hrvtrans/george/pienaar.htm]
#*1997 '''KITSKONSTABEL''' ACTIONS TO BE HEARD AT GRAHAMSTWON TRC HEARINGS : The activities of the South Africa Police's notorious apartheid-era "'''kitskonstables'''" will come under the spotlight at the three-day hearings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in Grahamstown next week, from April 7 to 9.  The '''kitskonstables''' (special constables) were infamous for random beatings and shootings in the Grahamstown area during the 1980s.  [http://www.doj.gov.za/trc/media/1997/9704/s970403f.htm]
#*1998 Harrington’s hero was Major Deon Terreblanche – notorious for his killing sprees. ‘He was actually like my father. He was interested in my work. He always wanted to know how I was. He told me I personally have to fight against the ANC, because they were communists. He said he would see to it that I never get into trouble.’ But a '''kitskonstabel''' with ANC sympathies killed Terreblanche. Antjie Krog Country of My Skull [http://www.africanreviewofbooks.com/ 100best/100bestsamples/krog.html]

[[Category: South African English]]

[[ru:kitskonstabel]]