==English==

===Etymology===
Old English [[cneo|cnēo]].

===Pronunciation===
*nē, /niː/, /ni:/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-iː|Rhymes: -iː]]

===Noun===
'''knee''' (''plural'' '''[[knees]]''')

#In man, the [[joint]] in the middle part of the [[leg]].
#{{skeleton}} The joint, or region of the joint, between the thigh and leg.
#{{anatomy}} In the horse and allied animals, the carpal joint, corresponding to the wrist in man.
#(''Shipbuilding'') A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in the shape of the human knee when bent.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1980''': Deck beams were supported by hanging knees, triangular pieces of wood typically found underneath the timbers they are designed to  support, but in this case found above them. &mdash; Richard W. Unger, ''The Ship in the Medieval Economy 600-1600'', page 41.
#A [[bending]] of the knee, as in respect or courtesy.
#:''Give them title, knee, and approbation.'' Shak.

====Derived terms====
*[[kneecap]]
*[[kneejerk]]
*[[kneepan]]
*[[knees-up]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[رّكبة]]}}
*[[Basque]]: [[belaun]]
*Bengali: [[হাঁটু]]
*[[Breton]]: [[glin]] ''m''
*Bulgarian: [[коляно]] (kolâno)
*Belarusian: [[калена]] (kaljena)
*Cantonese: [[膝]] (sat1)
*[[Catalan]]: [[genoll]] ''m'' [[:ca:genoll|(ca)]]
*Chinese: [[膝]] (xī)
*Croatian: [[koljeno]]
*Czech: [[koleno]]
*Dutch: [[knie]] ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[genuo]]
*Estonian: [[põlv]]
*Finnish: [[polvi]]
*French: [[genou]] ''m''
*German: [[Knie]] ''n'' [[:de:Knie|(de)]]
*Greek: [[γόνατο]] ''n''
*[[Hawaiian]]: [[kuli]]
*[[Hindi]]: [[घुटना]] ({{Unicode|ghuṭanā}})
*Hungarian: [[térd]]
*[[Ido]]: [[genuo]]
*Indonesian: [[lutut]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[geniculo]], [[genu]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[ginocchio]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[膝]] ([[ひざ]], hiza)
*Korean: [[무릎]] (muleup)
*Latin: [[genu]] ''n''
*Macedonian: [[колено]] (koleno)
*Northern Sami: [[čibbi]]
*Norwegian: [[kne]] ''n''
*Old English: [[cneo|cnēo]] ''n''
*[[Pitjantjatjara]]: {{Unicode|[[muṯi]]}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[زانو]]}} (zânu)
*Polish: [[kolano]]
*Portuguese: [[joelho]] ''m''
*Russian: {{RUchar|[[колено]]}} (koleno)
*Serbian: [[колено]] (koleno)
*[[Slovio]]: [[kolen]]
*Slovak: [[koleno]]
*Slovene: [[koleno]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[rodilla]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[knä]] ''n''
*[[Tamazight]]: [[afud]] ''m''
*Telugu: [[మోకాలు]] (mOkaalu)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[เข่า]]}}
*Turkish: [[diz]]
*Ukrainian: [[коліно]] (kolino)
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|knee|knees|kneed|kneeing}}
# ''(archaic)'' to [[kneel]] to
#*'''1605''': I could as well be brought / To '''knee''' his throne and, squire-like, pension beg / To keep base life afoot. — William Shakespeare, ''King Lear'' II.ii
# [[poke]] or [[strike]] with the knee

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ca:knee]]
[[fr:knee]]
[[io:knee]]
[[it:knee]]
[[hu:knee]]
[[pl:knee]]
[[ro:knee]]
[[ru:knee]]
[[sr:knee]]
[[fi:knee]]
[[ta:knee]]
[[zh:knee]]