{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|before|see|over|93|know|much|after|first}}

===Etymology===
Middle English, from Old English ''[[cnāwan]]''. Cognate with Spanish ''[[conocer]]'', French [[connaître]], Latin ''[[cognoscere]]'', Greek [[γνωρίζω]] ('I know') and {{Unicode|[[γνῶσις]]}} ('knowledge'), German ''[[kennen]]'', and Persian {{FAchar|[[شناختن]]}} (''šenāxtæn'', 'to know').

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/nəʊ/}}
*{{audio|en-us-know.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-əʊ|-əʊ]]

====Homophones====
*[[no]]
*[[now]] (with some dialects or accents—for most English speakers, ''now'' is pronounced differently than ''no'' or ''know'')

===Verb===
{{en-verb|knows|knowing|knew|known}}

# {{intransitive}} To be [[certain]] or [[sure]] about something.
#: ''I know that I’m right and you’re wrong.''
#: ''He knew something terrible was going to happen.''
# {{transitive}} To be [[acquainted]] or [[familiar]] with; to have [[encounter]]ed.
#: ''I know your mother, but I’ve never met your father.''
# {{transitive}} To have [[knowledge]] of; to have [[memorise]]d [[information]], [[data]], or [[fact]]s about.
#: ''He knows more about 19th century politics than one would expect.''
#: ''She knows where I live.''
#: ''Let me do it. I know how it works.''
# {{transitive}} To [[understand]] a [[subject]].
#: ''She knows chemistry better than anybody else.''
# {{cattag|transitive|archaic|biblical}} To have [[sexual]] [[relation]]s with.
# {{intransitive}} To be [[inform]]ed about something.
#: ''Do you know that Michelle and Jack are getting divorced? — Yes, I know.''
# {{transitive}} To [[see through]] somebody.
#: ''I won’t lend you any money. You would never pay me back; I know you.''

====Quotations====
;to have sexual relations with
*{{RQ:Authorized Version}}, Genesis 4:1
*: And Adam '''knew''' Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.

====Derived terms====
*[[knowing]]
*[[knowledge]]
*[[unknown]]

====Related terms====
*[[get to know]]

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[di]] (1), [[njoh]] (2)
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[عرف]]}} {{Unicode|(ʕárifa)}}
*[[Bislama]]: [[save#Bislama|save]]
*Bulgarian: [[зная]] (znája)
*Catalan: [[saber]] (1), [[coneixer]] (2)
*Cebuano: [[kahibalo]] (1,3,4,5), [[katultol]] (2) ''(a place)'', [[kaila]] (2) ''(a person)'', [[kamao]] (3) ''(a skill)''
*Chinese: [[知道]] [to know something]; [[認識]], [[认识]] [to know a person]
*Croatian: [[znati]]
*Czech: [[vědět]] (1), [[znát]] (2)
*Dutch: [[weten]] (1), [[kennen]] (2)
*Esperanto: [[scii]] (1), [[koni]] (2)
*Finnish: [[tietää]], [[tuntea]]
*French: [[savoir]] (1), [[connaître]] (2,3), [[parler]] (5)
*[[Frisian]]: [[witte]], [[kenne]]
*German: [[wissen]] (1), [[kennen]] (2)
*Greek: [[ξέρω]] (kséro) (1), [[γνωρίζω]] (gnorízo) (2,3)
*[[Guarani]]: [[kuaa]]
*Hebrew: [[ידע]] (yadáa)
*Hungarian: [[tud]] (1), [[ismer]] (2)
*[[Ido]]: [[savar]] (1), [[konocar]] (2,3)
*Indonesian: [[tahu]], [[tahu|mengetahui]], [[kenal]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[saper]], [[cognoscer]], [[recognoscer]]
*Italian: [[sapere]] (1), [[conoscere]] (2,3), [[riconoscere]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[知る]] ([[しる]], shirú), [[知っている]] ([[しっている]], shitté-irú)
*Korean: [[알다]] (alda) (1), ...와 [[친한 사이다]] (...-wa chinhan saida) (2)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[zanîn]] (1,3,4,5), [[nasîn]] (2)
*Latin: [[scire]] (1), [[cognoscere]] (2,3)
*[[Manchu]]: (ulhimbi)
*Old English: [[witan]] (1,2,3,4,5), [[cunnan]] (2,6)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[دانستن|دانِستَن]]}} (dānestæn) (1), {{FAchar|[[شناختن|شِناختَن]]}} (šenāxtæn) (2)
*Polish: [[wiedzieć]] (1), [[znać]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[saber]], [[conhecer]], [[reconhecer]]
*Rohingya: [[zano]]
*Romanian: [[şti]], [[cunoaşte]]
*Romany: [[zhanel]]
*Russian: [[знать]] (znat’) (1,2), [[уметь]] (umét’) (3)
*Slovak: [[vedieť]] (1), [[poznať]] (2)
*Slovenian: [[vedeti]] (1), [[znati]] (2), [[spoznati]] (6)
*Spanish: [[saber]] (1), [[conocer]] (2)
*Swedish: [[veta]] (1), [[känna]] (2)
*Tagalog: [[malaman]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[తెలుసుకొను]]
*Thai: {{THchar|[[รู้]]}} (rú) (1), {{THchar|[[รู้จัก]]}} (rújàk) (2)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[save#Tok Pisin|save]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[kuab]]
*Turkish: [[bilmek]] (1,3,4,5), [[tanmak]] (2)
{{bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:Thinking]]
[[Category:English homophones]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:Positive words]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[de:know]]
[[es:know]]
[[fr:know]]
[[gl:know]]
[[ko:know]]
[[io:know]]
[[it:know]]
[[la:know]]
[[hu:know]]
[[pl:know]]
[[pt:know]]
[[ru:know]]
[[fi:know]]
[[ta:know]]
[[tr:know]]
[[uk:know]]
[[zh:know]]