==Finnish==
===Noun===
'''konekääntäminen'''

# [[machine translation]]
The Bombardier Beetle (Brachinus sp, Metrius sp., Stenaptinus sp.) has been the subject of much discussion by creationists and evolutionists alike. Recent reports demonstrate the sophistication and accuracy with which these carabid beetles deliver a spray of hot quinones and steam to ward off predators. Workers over the last 40 years have reported on the histology and ultrastructure of the pygidial gland and accessory components of these defensive organs. Those reports differ significantly from the present paper. Thus it appears that some distinction exists in the morphology of the enzyme secretion bodies, the chemical reservoirs, the reaction chambers and the actual aiming nozzles of the spray systems within the family Carabidae, even though these beetles use these glands for the same purpose. In this study the pygidial gland and nozzle of one species of Bombardier Beetle is studied under light and electron microscopy (SEM and TEM) and are shown to be quite complex. This complexity could suggest an origin by design.

The Bombardier Beetle has been a subject of interest for many years. This beetle is called a ‘bombardier’ because it ejects (with an audible popping sound), a hot, highly noxious spray of aqueous benzoquinones, oxygen and steam as a defence mechanism against would-be predators.1–15 This secretion is very accurately delivered via twin sets of spray nozzles located at the tip of the beetle abdomen and is most effective at stunning predators,5 even mammals such as mice, thus allowing the beetle to escape.

Bombardier Beetles range in size from 2.0 mm overall length (Mastax) to 30 mm in length (Aptinomorphus) and can be found all over the world, from the United States and Mexico to Australia.16 They live under rocks or pebbles in cool, sandy soil, usually near a stream or a lake. Aggregating in groups during the daytime, they are usually active at night.

There exist several different types of Bombardier Beetles, which employ slightly different types of defensive structures and chemistry but generally the same method of defence—shooting at predators when threatened and then running away. One tribe, however, (Mystropomini), is known to bury itself halfway in the ground with only its abdominal tip protruding above the ground.10 Most Bombardier Beetles exist in the family Carabidae, and within that family are three subfamilies: Brachinae, Metriinae, and Paussinae.2

An early-recorded observation of these beetles was made in 1839, by the entomologist O.J. Westwood, who quoted a traveler returning from South America. He wrote that large beetles of the genus Brachinus ‘on being seized … immediately … play off their artillery, burning … the flesh to such a degree, that only a few specimens (can) be captured with the naked hand.’1

Most noticeable, is the force of the spray, which is ejected during the reaction. Some workers17 have found that the spray is ejected in explosive discharges of about 500 pulses per second, which can surprise and deter large vertebrates (even frogs),1,3,5,6,17,18 and can even send some attackers into seizures.5

One study records the velocity of the spray to be within a range of 325 to a stunning 1950 cm/s.17

Additionally, the beetle’s spray is astonishingly hot (some are unleashed at 100°C), a feature that seems to be dependent on the biochemistry of the reaction between the hydroquinones, hydrogen peroxides and the catalases and peroxidases that the beetle synthesizes and stores in separate reservoirs.1,2,6,9,11,13,17,19
Pygidial Gland
Figure 1. Pygidial gland and accessory components of the Bombardier Beetle defence system (after Forsyth).12 Scale bar = 1.0 mm.

The structure of the defence system of the Bombardier Beetle, as reported in the literature, is complex, consisting of two sets of secretary lobes, collecting canals, collecting reservoirs, one-way valves, sphincter muscles, reaction chambers, exit tubes and exit nozzles (Figure 1).1,2,4,6,9,15,17 All known carabid ‘Bombardier’ Beetles have similar internal structures, and they all employ a similar chemical reaction.2

The Bombardier Beetle has, in recent years, been a hot topic in the creation/evolution debate. It has been argued by creationists that the beetle serves as an excellent example of the kind of design that could not have formed through slow, random genetic mutations over time.20–27 Behe, however, maintains that ‘Darwinian evolution might have occurred’ to produce these defensive anatomical features,33 but he is also quick to point out that nothing has truly been explained by this type of evolutionary story. This argument is hotly contested by evolutionists who state that it is quite probable that the pygidial defence system of the Bombardier Beetle evolved over time through natural selection. 17,28–32

The defence system of the Bombardier Beetle is very complex and no one has attempted to truly explain the design or intrabaraminic diversity of the system. This paper serves as a preliminary report on observations of beetles from the Brachinus genus.
Structure

According to the literature, paired secretory lobes connect via long tubes to collecting reservoirs, each of which are surrounded by a thin layer of muscle, and joined to a reaction chamber by means of a one-way valve controlled by a sphincter muscle.1,4,6,15 One study,17 however suggests that the valve itself oscillates passively, in an automatic fashion. That report maintains that the collection reservoir, the valve, and the reaction chamber function together to work as a ‘pulse jet,’ with the spray emitted in pulses. Using a microphone, force transducer (piezoelectric crystal), and high-speed cinematography, workers discovered that each discharge (lasting 2.6 to 24.1 ms) consists of 2 to 12 individual pulses, and that they are in reality individual micro-explosions repeating at 368 to 735 pulses per second within the reaction chamber.17 These researchers postulate that the beetle does not squeeze the collection reservoir or the sphincter muscle rapidly, but that the beetle applies even, steady pressure on the collection reservoir. Once the muscles around the reservoir squeeze the first amount of reactants through the valve into the reaction chamber, the resulting explosion causes the pressure to rise rapidly in the reaction chamber, forcing shut the one-way valve. The products of the reaction then exit the chamber with a pop and a puff, and the pressure inside the reaction chamber lowers again, falling below the pressure of the collection reservoir, which is still being squeezed by the reservoir muscles. The cycle then repeats itself—the valve thus oscillates passively.

The secretory lobes secrete aqueous hydrogen peroxide and hydroquinones, which are stored in large quantity in the collecting reservoirs. It is reported that the same cells actually synthesize and separate both the hydrogen peroxide and the hydroquinones.15 The stored liquids remain in the full reservoirs until needed. When the Bombardier Beetle is threatened (such as with a bite on the limb) it contracts its collection reservoirs, moving the hydrogen peroxide and hydroquinones into the reaction chamber through the valves. The reaction chamber is said to be lined with enzyme-secreting structures which produce peroxidases and catylases,1,4,15 although some studies state that oxidases and other enzymes are secreted and stored in the reaction chamber.6,17

When the hydrogen peroxide and hydroquinones come into contact with the enzymes, an explosive reaction takes place, yielding water, quinones, heat and gaseous oxygen. The pressure of the free oxygen propels the mixture out of the reaction chamber through the spray nozzle, directed to the target (either at the predator or on the beetle’s own integument as a protective measure) by way of flanges (as in the tribe Paussini), line grooves (as in the Metriini), or spray deflectors (as in the Brachinini).

The overall structure of the secretory lobes and collecting canals is said to resemble a cluster of grapes,12 the stalk being the final collecting canal leading to the collecting reservoir. These authors state that each lobe is essentially a ball of cells which all face inward, aligned radially around a central collecting lumen (in the tribes Brachinini and Paussini, where secretory lobes are fingerlike, the collecting lumen is long and extends the length of the lobe).9 Each secretory cell has an elongate secretory vesicle which is almost as long as the cell itself and is centrally located with a ‘coated membrane’ crowded with microvilli.15 An efferent cuticular tubule, or duct, leads out of the end of the vesicle towards the center of the secretory lobe. The duct extends past the end of the cell, and through a duct-carrying cell. A duct-carrying cell surrounds the duct, having its plasma membrane between it and the duct, which in turn is surrounded by its own vesicular membrane. Finally, the duct terminates into the central collecting lumen in the middle of the secretory lobe. Subsequent to the collecting lumen, the secretion travels through the collecting canal to the ‘stalk,’ or the main collecting canal of the ‘grape bunch,’ which will then take the secretion to the collecting reservoir.12

Bombardier Beetles in general have similar collecting canals, however there are some differences. The Ozaenini and Paussini tribes have identical collecting canals, and this supports the widely accepted theory that the Paussini have developed from the Ozaenini, but it is agreed that these are not directly related to the Brachinae.6,9 Other authors lament the close similarities in defensive systems in very disparate organisms. In fact the chemical secretions of the Brachinae ‘bear a close resemblance to those of certain … millipedes … earwigs and cockroaches.’5 Thus evolutionists are faced with the vexing conundrum that this defence system evolved independently in separate groups.2,4,5,9,11 These evolutionists might state that ‘convergent evolution’ was responsible for this, but that simply does not address the question.

Metriini, a Bombardier Beetle that has a different method of spraying its secretion, has dissimilar glands in most aspects to the Ozaenini, but the collecting canals of Metrius, a well-known genus in Metriini, are very similar to both the Ozaenini and Paussini.12 The Brachinini have exceptionally long collecting canals, up to twice the length of the body of the entire beetle, seemingly much longer than would be necessary to move the secretion from the lobes to the collecting reservoir,12 and again, confusing the systematists.
Abdomen
Figure 2. Brachinus abdomen, LS. Light micrograph showing paired secretion lobes (1 arrow), paired storage reservoirs (2 arrows), paired reaction chambers (RC), deflection paddle (Pad). Scale bar = 1.0 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Secretory Lobe
Figure 3. Light micrograph showing secretory lobe, preserved secretions (Sec). Scale bar = 0.5 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Inner Secretory Lobe Walls
Figure 4. TEM micrograph showing chitinized inner secretory lobe walls (black arrows). Scale bar = 5.0 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Chitinized Walls
Figure 5. TEM micrograph showing chitinized walls (black arrows) and heavy population of mitochondria (white arrows). Scale bar = 1.0 m. [Click image to enlarge.]
Dividing Bacteria
Figure 6. TEM micrograph showing dividing bacteria within secretory lobes. Scale bar = 1.0 m. [Click image to enlarge.]
Secretory Lobes
Figure 7. TEM micrograph showing fine structure of chitinized layer and dividing bacteria within secretory lobes. Scale bar = 1.0 m. [Click image to enlarge.]
Storage Reservoir
Figure 8. Light micrograph of storage reservoir surrounded by massive muscle layer. Scale bar = 1.0 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Striated Muscle
Figure 9. TEM micrograph of striated muscle (black arrows) around secretory lobe. Scale bar = 1.0 m. [Click image to enlarge.]
Collecting Tube
Figure 10. TEM micrograph of striated muscle (black arrows) around collecting tube. Scale bar = 1.0 m. [Click image to enlarge.]
Collecting Stalk and Reservoir
Figure 11. Light micrograph of striated muscle circumscribing juncture between collecting stalk and reservoir. Scale bar = 0.5 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Passageway out of Reaction Chamber
Figure 12. Light micrograph of striated muscle surrounding passageway out of reaction chamber. Scale bar = 1.0 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Abdomen Tip and Deflection Paddle
Figure 13. Light micrograph of heavily muscled abdomen tip and deflection paddle (black arrows). Scale bar = 0.75 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Fat Bodies with Lipid Drops
Figure 14. Light micrograph of fat bodies filled with lipid drops (black arrows). Scale bar = 0.5 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Spray Nozzles
Figure 15. SEM micrograph of abdomen tip with paired spray nozzles (white arrows) and paddles (Pad). Scale bar = 1.0 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Flattened Papillae
Figure 16. SEM micrograph; close-up of one spray nozzle showing paired flattened papillae (black arrows). Scale bar = 0.2 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Spray Nozzle Pores
Figure 17. SEM micrograph; close-up of spray nozzle showing nozzle pores. Scale bar = 0.2 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]
Everted Female Spermatheca
Figure 18. SEM micrograph showing everted female spermatheca. Scale bar = 1.0 mm. [Click image to enlarge.]

The collecting reservoir varies in shape and size among Bombardier Beetles. Covered in a thin muscle layer, and having both an efferent duct opening and an opening valve, differences can be seen between the different tribes of Brachinini, Metriini and Paussini.9,12 The reaction chamber, as mentioned, is confusingly reported on the one hand to store secretions of enzymes, and on the other to secrete them in real time when the beetle is alarmed.

Once the hot gaseous spray exits the reaction chamber, it travels through what Forsyth12 calls a ‘gaping aperture,’ at the ninth tergite (a plate of abdominal cuticle), the characteristics of which vary with the different kinds of Bombardier Beetles. In the Ozaenini and Paussini it lies on the posterior wall of the reaction chamber, ‘but in the Brachinini the latter opens to the outside via a short membranous tube.’12 The results of the present study show that this structure is far from merely a ‘short membranous tube.’

Additionally, the Bombardier Beetle has the ability to direct its defensive spray toward its aggressor with pinpoint accuracy. Several Bombardier Beetles (most notably Brachinini) show the ability to direct their deterrent spray in almost any direction, accurately enough to target not only different limbs (what the aggressor usually bites or grasps), but different leg segments of the same limb.6,8,17 Others in the subfamily Paussini employ a different method of directional control, using flanges on the integument of the beetle to guide the spray to the desired location.2,4 Still others (Metriini) use lined grooves to conduct a hot quinoid foam to the area of the body being attacked.9

The flexible abdominal tip of the genus Brachinus can bend around in all directions even shooting directly forward, in an anterior direction over the dorsal surface, with help from special deflection plates.8,17 These hardened cuticular plates, acting as deflectors, are located just outside the opening of the reaction chamber, and give directional control to the discharge by changing their angle of deflection. Exactly how these deflectors are used to direct the spray is not understood.

The Paussini and Ozaenini, of the subfamily Paussinae, also direct their spray effectively, but employ a different method of targeting. Using flanges (‘curved, fluid directing devices that serve as launching guides for the anteriorly aimed discharges’),7 these beetles can slingshot the liquid around the outside of their integument, guiding the steaming liquid in a variety of directions. Eisner and Aneshansley show that this slingshot method is in reality caused by the Coanda effect—the propensity of liquids or gases to flow along a curved surface, adhering to them as they move.7 The Paussini use this effectively, as their special flanges allow them to discharge forward past their head, although it is not as precise as the Brachinini spray. Considered by many to be more primitive than the other Bombardier Beetles,9 the subfamily Metriinae shoots its quinoid mixture as a puff of noxious vapor and hot foam at 55°C. Although it cannot spray it, this beetle can direct the foam to various locations on its integument, effectively deterring predators.2

The spray of beetles in the tribe Brachinini, has been shown to deter several natural predators.4–6,8 These include the ant Pogonomyrmex badius, which ‘retreated swiftly,’ and commenced to have a series of ‘short, intermittent seizures, abrupt in onset, during which the legs stretched outward and flailed ineffectually against the substratum, greatly hampering and often completely stalling forward movement.’5

Also observed to be deterred was the beetle Galerita janus, which when sprayed, fled ‘hastily for a few centimeters, it suddenly became sluggish and circled aimlessly … .’5 In addition, the spray was also effective against the praying mantid, Hierodula patellifera and the spider, Lycosa helluo which was ‘brought to a sudden halt.’

Few ultrastructural studies of the pygidial gland and the spray nozzle of the Bombardier Beetle have been attempted. In fact only one extensive fine structure report can be found in the literature15 in which the secretion lobes, storage receptacles, and reaction chambers have been examined and under light and transmission electron microscopy and photographs published. Some reports are accompanied by limited scanning electron micrographs8,9,17 or photographs through a dissecting microscope.9 Most reports, however,1,2,4,6,17 are simply accompanied by a copy of a drawing made by workers in 1961,13 or a variation of that same drawing. This includes reports in the creationist literature, most notably the treatment by Michael Behe.33
Materials and methods

Twenty beetles of the Brachinus genus, (probably B. mexicanus and B. gebhardis) were collected by hand from underneath rocks lying along a stream bed in Santa Clarita, Los Angeles County, California. Beetles were observed to congregate in tightly knit groups until disturbed and then went scurrying in all directions. Beetles fired off their hot quinone spray when captured and left fingertips blackened by the spray. They were kept in covered 30 cm diameter glass Stenner dishes in the laboratory and were sustained by bits of chicken (lunchmeat) and water-soaked cotton swabs for over a year. Beetles calmed significantly over time in captivity to the point that they rarely fired their spray when nudged by finger, and they would often mill around when disturbed rather than run and hide.

Ten beetles were prepared for SEM by cooling on ice and immersion into cold 2% glutaraldehyde buffered in .2M sodium cacodylate for 36 hours. Abdomens of fixed material were washed in water and buffer and were passed through a graded series of acetone assisted by microwave radiation in a laboratory microwave oven (Ted Pella, Inc, Redding, CA.). Dehydrated material was left in tetramethylsilane overnight, allowed to air dry, and then was sputter coated in gold and observed on a JEOL SEM at 15kV.

Ten beetles were prepared for TEM similarly, except they were postfixed in 2% osmium, then washed and dehydrated. Complete, dehydrated abdomens were infiltrated and embedded in Epon-Spurrs resin in the microwave oven, and silver sections were collected, stained and viewed on a Zeiss 10C TEM.
Results