{{original research}}
A '''koozie''' (or '''coozie''') is a device, typically made of some type of insulating material, into which a beverage can or bottle can be inserted to retain its cold temperature. 

There are several types of beverage insulators. The most common insulate 12 ounce bottles and cans. Common insulating materials include neoprene, polyurethane and NBR foam. Neoprene being the material that conveys the highest perceived value. 

The majority of beverage insulators are decorated via screen printing or 4-color sublimation printing. Screen printing is typically the less expensive option.

The koozie was introduced by the RCC Koozie company, based in San Antonio, Texas. The koozie is made from thick NBR foam and typically deocrated with only a 1-color imprint. In recent years several companies have introduced this can/bottle holder to their lines. RCC Koozie was since bought by promotional product giant Norwood.

In 1982 another Texas based company, Kolder, Inc., introduced the Kolder Holder. Made from neoprene wetsuit rubber, the '''Kolder Holder''' featured a full-glued in bottom. Shortly after Kolder introduced the Bottle Suit, a longneck beer bottle insulator with a zipper and full glued-in bottom. 

Kolder is the company that manufacturers nearly all of the insulators you see at the retail level. They have the NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL and college licenses, as well as all the major beer companies.


[http://www.kolder.com Kolder.com]

[http://www.norwood.com Norwood.com]

{{tool-stub}}

== See Also ==

*[[Stubby cooler]]

== References ==
{{unreferenced}}
<references />