==Dutch==
===Adjective===
'''kort'''
#[[short|Short]].

[[Category:Dutch adjectives]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===

'''kort''' ''n.''

# [[map]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----
==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{no-noun-n1}}
#[[card]]

----
== Swedish ==
=== Adjective ===
{{sv-adj|kort|kort|korte|korta|kortare|kortast|kortaste|kortaste}}
'''kort'''
#[[short]]

====Antonyms====
*[[lång]]

====Derived terms====
*[[korthet]]
*[[kortbyxor]]

====Quotations====
*'''1901''': [http://runeberg.org/topnovel/b0313.html ''Noveller''] av [[w:Zacharias Topelius|Zacharias Topelius]] - Thomas! Thomas! [...]viskade nu Lotten, ty det var den '''korte''' som segrat, och hon hade igenkänt honom.
*:Thomas! Thomas! Lotten now whispered, since it was the short one that had won, and she had recognized him.
*'''1931''': [http://runeberg.org/clownjac/05.html ''Clownen Jac''] av [[w:Hjalmar Bergman|Hjalmar Bergman]] - '''Kortaste''' avståndet mellan två punkter är den krokiga linjen, ju krokigare, desto '''kortare'''.
*:The shortest distance between two points is the crooked line, the more crooked, the shorter.
=== Noun ===
{{sv-noun|gender=Neuter|kort|kortet|kort|korten|korts|kortets|korts|kortens}}
'''kort'''

#[[card]]; a piece of stiff paper or plastic.
#[[photograph]]

====Synonyms====
'''photograph'''
*[[foto]]

====Quotations====
'''card'''
*'''1926''': [http://runeberg.org/sistresa/18.html ''Sista resan''] av John Wahlborg - Mannen räckte mig ett litet '''kort''', varpå han nedskrivit namn och adress på en kvinna i Stockholm.
*:The man gave me a small card on which he had written the name and address of a woman in Stockholm.
[[fr:kort]]
[[id:kort]]
[[it:kort]]
[[nl:kort]]
[[no:kort]]
[[pl:kort]]
[[fi:kort]]
[[vi:kort]]
[[zh:kort]]