==English==
===Noun===
Kwanzaa, pronounced ''Quon-zuh''
#Kwanzaa is a week-long [[African-American]] [[holiday]] held between December 26 and January 1.  Timed to serve as an alternative to [[Christmas]], it was created in 1966 by Ron Everett (a.k.a. Dr. Maulana Karenga), a convicted felon.  Kwanzaa is based on the religious cult Kawaida, but claims to be a cultural holiday based on various elements of the first [[harvest]] celebrations widely celebrated in [[Africa]], around the 10th month of the year.  Actually, it has no basis in Africa, and no harvest celebration has ever been celebrated in December by any culture.  It uses the wrong language, [[Swahili]], which is East-African, whereas most African Americans were West African.  [[Corn]], one of its seven symbols, is not indigenous to Africa.  It is comprised of seven symbols, and seven virtues.  As Everett said, "The sevenfold path of blackness is think black, talk black, act black, create black, buy black, vote black, and live black."  Each of the seven days of Kwanzaa is dedicated to one of the following principles. In order, they are:
<BR>Umoja ([[Unity]])
<BR>Kujichagulia ([[Self-determination]])
<BR>Ujima ([[Collective work]] and [[responsibility]])
<BR>Ujamaa ([[Cooperative economics]])
<BR>Nia ([[Purpose]])
<BR>Kuumba ([[Creativity]])
<BR>Imani ([[Faith]])

===Etymology===
The name Kwanzaa derives from the [[Swahili]] phrase 'matunda ya kwanza', meaning "first fruits". The additional "a" was added to "Kwanza" so that the word would have seven letters, one for each of the Seven Principles [[Nguzu Saba]] of Blackness.

===Related Terms===
[[Ron Karenga]]

==External Links==
[http://www.papillonsartpalace.com/sothisis.htm Papillion's Art Palace: So this is Kwanzaa]