==English==
===Noun===
'''label''' (''plural'' '''labels''')

#A small [[ticket]] or [[sign]] giving information about something to which it is attached or to intended to be attached.
#A [[name]] given to something or someone to categorise them as part of a particular social group.
<!--??? #[[identification]] -->

====Synonyms====
*(''small ticket''): [[sign]], [[tag]], [[ticket]]
*(''name given to something or someone''): [[category]], [[pigeonhole]]

====Translations====

'''ticket'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Catalan: etiqueta ''f''
*Dutch: [[etiket]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[etiketti]]
*French: [[étiquette]] ''f''
*Italian: [[etichetta]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Spanish: [[etiqueta]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''name categorising someone as part of a group'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[etiket]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[leima]] ''([[stamp]])''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*German: [[Etikett]], [[Kennsatz]], [[Kennzeichen]], [[Marke]]
*Portuguese: [[etiqueta]], [[marca]]
*Swedish: [[etikett]] ''c'' (1,2)

===Transitive verb===
'''to label'''

#To put a label (a ticket or sign) on (something).
#To give a label to (someone or something) in order to categorise that person or thing.

====Synonyms====
*(''put a ticket or sign on ''): [[tag]]
*(''give a label to in order to categorise''): [[categorise]], [[compartmentalise]], [[pigeonhole]]

====Translations====

'''put a ticket or sign on'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Catalan: [[etiquetar]]
*Dutch: [[etiketteren]], [[etiketten aanbrengen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''give a label to in order to categorise'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Catalan: [[etiquetar]]
*Dutch: [[categoriseren]]
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Portuguese: [[etiquetar]]

[[io:label]]
[[it:label]]
[[ru:label]]