==English==
===Noun===
# A type of clover. ''Trifolium repens''
#*White clover is a shallow-rooted perennial that makes little growth during hot dry summer weather. It has a prostrate type of growth that is well suited to permanent pastures and is usually included in pasture mixes. '''Ladino''' is a larger variety of the white clover and is recommended over the small white clover for horse pastures because of its greater production.  [http://ohioline.osu.edu/b762/b762_18.html]
#*Species and mixture recommendations according Seeding rate to soil type and primary use (lb/acre) I. Deep, well-drained fertile soils Orchardgrass and 8-10  Alfalfa or 8-10 Red clover + white ('''ladino-type''') clover or 6-8 + 1 Birdsfoot trefoil (prostrate and semi-erect Empire type 5-8  varieties) [http://www.nrsl.umd.edu/extension/publications/SeedingSmallAcreageHorsePastures.pdf]
#* ''Trifolium repens''. White or '''ladino''' clover is especially responsive to cool, moist conditions. It grows best between 50 and 85 degrees F. It also responds to irrigation about as much as any other legume. Because of its shallow root system, it is not adapted to shallow, droughty soils.  [http://muextension.missouri.edu/explore/agguides/crops/g04639.htm]

==Italian==
===Noun===
[[Category:Italian nouns]]
'''ladino'''
#the [[Ladin]] language, a Rhaetian tongue of Northeastern Italy.
===Adjective===
[[Category:Italian adjectives]]
'''ladino'''
#regarding Ladin

==Spanish==
=== Etymology ===
From {{L.}} ''[[latinus]]''; cf. [[latín]], [[latino]]

=== Adjective ===
{{es-adj|feminine=ladina}}

#[[mestizo]]

=== Noun ===
{{es-noun-m}}

#[[mestizo]] person
#the [[Ladin]] language of Italy
#the Judeo-Spanish language

[[es:ladino]]
[[fr:ladino]]
[[io:ladino]]
[[it:ladino]]
[[ru:ladino]]
[[vi:ladino]]
[[zh:ladino]]