''See also [[låg]]''
==English==

===Adjective===
'''lag'''

# [[late]]

====Quotations====
*'''1592''': Some tardy cripple bore the countermand, / That came too '''lag''' to see him buried. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''King Richard III''

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

#a gap; an interval created by something not keeping up

====Quotations====

*'''2004''': During the Second World War, for instance, the Washington Senators had a starting rotation that included four knuckleball pitchers. But, still, I think that some of that was just a generational '''lag'''. &mdash; ''The New Yorker Online,'' 10 May 2004


====Related terms====
*[[time lag]]
*[[jet lag]]


===Verb===
'''lag'''

# to not keep up (the pace), to fall behind
# to cover (for example, pipes) with felt strips or similar material

====Quotations====
'''to fail to keep up'''

*'''1587???''': Lazy beast! / Why last art thou now? Thou hast never used / To '''lag''' thus hindmost &mdash; George Chapman, ''The Odysseys of Homer''

*'''1596''': Behind her farre away a Dwarfe did '''lag''', / That lasie seemd in being ever last, / Or wearied with bearing of her bag / Of needments at his backe. &mdash; Edmund Spenser, ''The Faerie Queene,'' Canto I

*'''1798''': Brown skeletons of leaves that '''lag''' / My forest-brook along &mdash; Samuel Taylor Coleridge, ''The Rime of the Ancient Mariner in seven parts,'' 1798

'''Construction: ''to lag behind'' '''

*'''???''': While he, whose tardy feet had '''lagg'd''' behind, / Was doom'd the sad reward of death to find. &mdash; ''The Metamorphoses of Ovid'' translated into English verse under the direction of Sir Samuel Garth by John Dryden, Alexander Pope, Joseph Addison, William Congreve and other eminent hands

*'''2004''': Over the next fifty years, by most indicators dear to economists, the country remained the richest in the world. But by another set of numbers—longevity and income inequality—it began to '''lag''' behind Northern Europe and Japan. &mdash; ''The New Yorker,'' 5 April 2004

'''to cover with felt strips'''
*'''1974???''': Outside seems old enough: / Red brick, '''lagged''' pipes, and someone walking by it / Out to the car park, free. &mdash; Philip Larkin, ''The Building''

===Anagrams===
*[[gal]]

===Derived words===
*[[lagging]]
*[[laggard]]

===See also===
*[[tardy]]

----

==Danish==

=== Noun ===
'''lag'''

#[[layer]]

[[Category:Danish nouns]]

----

==German==
===Verb form===
'''lag'''

# ''past of [[liegen]]''
[[Category:German verb forms]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''lag'''

#[[law]]; a written or understood rule that concerns behaviours and the appropriate consequences thereof. Laws are usually associated with mores.
#law; the body of written rules governing a society.
#law; a one-sided contract.
#law; an observed physical law.
#(''mathematics'') law; a statement that is true under specified conditions.

====Inflections====
{{sv-noun|gender=Common|lag|lagen|lagar|lagarna|lags|lagens|lagars|lagarnas}}

====See also====
*[[lagens långa arm]]
*[[lagbok]]
*[[lagföra]]

===Noun===
'''lag'''

#[[team]]; group of people which in sports compete together versus another team; or in general, work closely together

====Inflections====
{{sv-noun|gender=Neuter|lag|laget|lag|lagen|lags|lagets|lags|lagens}}

====See also====
*[[lagarbete]]
*[[lagsport]]
*[[lagspel]]

[[fr:lag]]
[[no:lag]]
[[pl:lag]]
[[fi:lag]]
[[sv:lag]]
[[zh:lag]]