==English==

===Etymology===
From {{OE.}} ''lamb'' via {{ME.}}. The Germanic form was *''lambaz''.
===Noun===
'''lamb''', plural '''[[lambs]]'''

#A young [[sheep]].
#The [[flesh]] of a lamb used as food. Carnal term for sheep.
#(''figuratively'') A person who is meek, docile and easily led.

====Translations====
'''young sheep'''
{{top}}
*Arabic : [[خَرُوف]] (kharuf)
*Armenian : [[գառ]] (gar)
*Bosnian: [[jagnje#Bosnian|jagnje]] {{n}}
*Catalan [1,2] [[xai]] ''m'' [[:ca:xai|(ca)]], [[anyell]] ''m, lit.'' [[:ca:anyell|(ca)]]
*Czech:  [[jehně]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[lam]] ''n'', [[lammetje]] ''n'', [[lamsvlees]] ''n''
*Estonian: [[tall]]
*Finnish: [[karitsa]]
*French: [[agneau]] ''m''
*German: [[Lamm]] ''n'' [[:de:Lamm|(de)]]
*Hungarian: [[:hu:bárány|bárány]]
*[[Irish]]: [[uan]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[agnello]] ''m'', (''baby lamb'') [[agnellino]] ''m'' (1)
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[agnus]] ''m''
*Mongolian : [[хурга]] (khurga)
*Polish: [[jagnię]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[anho]] (m), [[cordeiro]] (m)
*Russian : [[ягнёнок]] (yagnionok)
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[јагње]] {{n}}
*:Roman: [[jagnje]] {{n}}
*Romanian: [[miel]] ''m''
*[[Scots Gaelic]]: [[uan]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [1] [[cordero]] ''m'' [[:es:cordero|(es)]]
*Swedish: [[lamm]] ''c''
*Turkish: [[kuzu]]
{{bottom}}

'''flesh of lamb as food'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[jagnjetina#Bosnian|jagnjetina]] {{f}}
*Czech: [[jehněčí]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[lam]] ''n'', [[lamsvlees]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[karitsa]], [[karitsanliha]]
*French: [[agneau]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*German: [[Lammfleisch]] ''n'' (2)
*Italian: [[agnello]] ''m''
*Polish: [[jagnięcina]] ''f''
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[јагњетина]] {{f}}
*:Roman: [[jagnjetina]] {{f}}
*Turkish: [[kuzu]]
{{bottom}}

'''meek person'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[lammas]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
'''lamb''' {{n}}

# lamb

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==Old English==
===Noun===
'''lamb'''
#A lamb, a young [[sheep]].
===Declension===
{| id="toc" valign="top"
|- bgcolor="lightgrey"
! !! sg. !! pl.
|-
!bgcolor="lightgrey"| nom.
| [[lamb]] || [[lambru]]
|-
!bgcolor="lightgrey"| acc.
| [[lamb]] || [[lambru]]
|-
!bgcolor="lightgrey"| gen.
| [[lambes]] || [[lambra]]
|-
!bgcolor="lightgrey"| dat.
| [[lambe]] || [[lambrum]]
|}

[[Category:Meats]]
[[ang:lamb]]
[[fa:lamb]]
[[fr:lamb]]
[[ko:lamb]]
[[io:lamb]]
[[it:lamb]]
[[hu:lamb]]
[[nl:lamb]]
[[pl:lamb]]
[[zh:lamb]]