{{see|Langer}}
==English==

===Noun===
'''langer'''

# (''County Cork ( the Rebel County ) slang'') a [[disagreeable]] [[person]], an [[idiot]].
#:''See that langer over there?''
# The male member.
#:''I've an awfully small langer.''
# "Acting the..." the act of being disagreeable.
#:''Ignore him, he's only acting the langer.''
# "Langers" the state of being remarkably drunk.
#:''I was langereted last Saturday night''
#:''I'm langers.'''
# "A langerload" - a large amount.

====Usage note====
The word can be used in several positions in the same sentence, though it rarely is.
eg "That langer was acting the langer after a langerload of drink and flashed his langer at me mate Noel. He's some langer, boy."
Which translates roughly as:
"That drunken lout was acting anti-socially after drinking rather a lot and exposed his penis to my friend Noel. He is quite the idiot."

The origin of the slang word langer is uncertain.

One suggestion is that a regiment of Munster Fusiliers were stationed in the Langur Province of India,
where local Langur monkey's, which were considered by the natives to be sacred and untouchable, were often responsible for the theft of army supplies. 

These howler monkeys were loud and intrusive and their name adopted into local Munster slang - specifically in Cork City.

===See also===
* [[langball]]
* [[langdang]]

----

==Dutch==
===Adjective===
'''langer''' (alternate form: [[langere]])

# Comparative of [[lang]]; [[longer]].

==Norwegian==
===Noun===
{{no-noun-m2}}

# A [[drug dealer]].

[[Category:English nouns]]