==Mandarin==
===Pronunciation===

===Noun===
# a colloquial term in [[w:Mandarin Chinese|Mandarin Chinese]] for "[[foreigner]]". For Chinese abroad, ''Laowai'' can, at times, also be invoked, especially if the person's behaviour is akin to that of a "[[banana]]".
# can also be used by Chinese themselves, and in this usage it refers to a person who does not understand much about an industry or a certain topic.

===Usage===
The term commonly used in colloquial speech is not necessarily intended to provoke rolling eyes of discontent from foreigners in [[w:China|China]], nor does it necessarily indicate respect or familiarity.  Many foreigners have expressed different opinions about this, however. One school is "in love" with the term ''Laowai'', while another school professes to detest it.

The "lao" in "Laowai" literally means "old", but in this context does not have this meaning. ''Lao'' is used in front of names to indicate respect, e.g. ''laoshi'' (teacher). It is also used in the names of animals that are detested or feared, such as ''laoshu'' (rat) or ''laohu'' (tiger). The common people are referred to as "Lao Bai Xing" (the "Old One Hundred Names"). ''Lao Tu Mao'' ("old dirt hat") is a term used for hicks or hillbillies. People from particular countries are also given the prefix ''lao'', as in "Lao Mei" for Americans and "Lao Hei" for blacks.

The implications of the ubiquitious use of ''Laowai'' in Mainland China to refer to foreigners are controversial. While some people exert that ''Laowai'' remains a neutral to even slightly polite term, others raise objections. Although Chinese culture traditionally respects the old and being old is not necessarily a bad thing, the "lao" in ''Laowai'' can be meant in a firmly tongue-in-cheek way as well. Instead of expressing respect or politeness, the word then assumes an ironical or even mocking meaning. It may be perceived as an exclusionist term, placing Westerners outside the circle, as it were. In any case, the connotation of ''laowai'' very much depends on the context of its use; the situation as well as the people uttering it. As such a loaded and interpretable term, ''Laowai'' should not to be used in serious discussion or written works.

Chinese media usually treat ''Laowai'' well, if anything, with a slight dose of fascination and curiosity. That said, there are noticeable exceptions. Some media may present articles which do not place them in a positive light (e.g. ''Laowai'' and traffic accidents, ''Laowai'' and fights) and this can easily bend the image of ''Laowai'', be they [[expat]]s or foreign visitors. However, it is important to note that these media may not be '''anti-'''''Laowai''. As a result, those reading such websites get the impression that ''Laowai'' are unruly, which often is not the case.

==See also==
*[[Gweilo]]

==External link==
*[http://www.laowai.com/ Laowai.com]