==English==

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[læppa]]'' (skirt or flap of a garment), from Proto Germanic ''*[[lapp-]]'', confer Middle Dutch ''[[lappe]]'', Old High German ''[[lappa]]'', German ''[[Lappen]]'', Old Norse ''[[leppr]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|lap|laps}}

#The loose part of a coat; the lower part of a garment that plays loosely; a skirt; an apron.
#An edge; a border; a hem, as of cloth.
#The part of the clothing that lies on the knees or thighs when one sits down; that part of the person thus covered; figuratively, a place of rearing and fostering; as, to be reared in the lap of luxury.
#The [[upper]] [[leg]]s of a [[seated]] person.
#(''archaic (17th century)'', ''euphemistic'') The [[female]] [[pudenda]].

=====Derived terms=====
*[[lapdance]], [[lap-dance]], [[lap dance]]
*[[lapdog]]
*[[laptop]], [[lap-top]], [[lap top]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*German: [[Schoß]] {{m}} (4,5)
*Hungarian: [[öl]] (4)
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[regazo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Verb appeared in the 13th century and was formed on the noun of Etymology 1. The sense of "to get a lap ahead (of someone) on a track" is from 1847, on notion of "overlapping." The noun meaning "a turn around a track" (1861) is from this sense.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|lap|laps}}
#That part of any substance or fixture which extends over, or lies upon, or by the side of, a part of another; as, the lap of a board; also, the measure of such extension over or upon another thing.
#The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below).
#The state or condition of being in part extended over or by the side of something else; or the extent of the overlapping; as, the second boat got a lap of half its length on the leader.
#{{sports}} One circuit around a race track, esp. when the distance is a small fraction of a mile; as, to run twenty laps; to win by three laps. See Lap, to fold, 2.
#In card playing and other games, the points won in excess of the number necessary to complete a game; &mdash; so called when they are counted in the score of the following game.
#A sheet, layer, or bat, of cotton fiber prepared for the carding machine.
#A piece of brass, lead, or other soft metal, used to hold a cutting or polishing powder in cutting glass, gems, and the like, or in polishing cutlery, etc. It is usually in the form of wheel or disk, which revolves on a vertical axis.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*German: [[Überstand]] {{m}} (1), [[Überhang]] {{m}} (1), [[Runde]] {{f}} (4)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|lap|laps|lapped|lapping}}
#''(transitive)'' To [[place]] or [[lay]] (something) so as to [[overlap]] another.
#:''One '''laps''' roof tiles so that water can run off.''
#To [[polish]], e.g., a surface, until [[smooth]].
#''(intransitive)'' To [[lie]] [[partly]] on or over something; to [[overlap]].
#''(transitive)'' To overtake a [[straggler]] in a race by completing one more lap than them.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*German: [[überlappen]] (3)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From Old English ''[[lapian]]'', from Proto Germanic ''*[[lapajanan]]'', confer Old High German ''[[laffen]]'' (to lick), Old Saxon ''[[lepil]]'', German ''[[Löffel]]'' (spoon).
====Verb====
{{en-verb|lap|laps|lapped|lapping}}
#To [[slurp]] up a liquid (like water) as a dog.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*German: [[schlecken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[pal]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]


----

==Hungarian==

===Noun===

# a [[sheet]]
# a [[page]]
#:''ezen a '''lapon''''' (on this page)
# a [[paper]]
#:''a mai '''lapokban''''' (in the papers of today)

[[Category:Hungarian nouns]]

[[et:lap]]
[[fr:lap]]
[[io:lap]]
[[ku:lap]]
[[hu:lap]]
[[nl:lap]]
[[ru:lap]]
[[zh:lap]]