==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: [læʃ]
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /l{S/
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æʃ|-æʃ]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

# The thong or braided cord of a whip, with which the blow is given.
#:''I observed that your whip wanted a lash to it.'' &mdash; Addison.
# (''obsolete'') A leash in which an animal is caught or held; hence, a snare.
# A stroke with a whip, or anything pliant and tough.
#:''The culprit received thirty-nine lashes.''
# A stroke of satire or sarcasm; an expression or retort that cuts or gives pain; a cut.
#:''The moral is a lash at the vanity of arrogating that to ourselves which succeeds well.'' &mdash; L'Estrange
# A hair growing from the edge of the eyelid; an eyelash.
# In carpet weaving, a group of strings for lifting simultaneously certain yarns, to form the figure.

====Translations====
'''thong of a whip'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''obsolete: a snare'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''stroke with a whip'''
{{top}}
* [[Russian]]: [[удар хлыстом]], бичом, плетью ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''stroke of satire or sarcasm'''
{{top}}
* [[Russian]]: резкий [[упрек]] ''m'', [[критика]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''hair growing from the eyelid'''
{{top}}
*French: [[cil]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[ciglio]] ''m''
{{bottom}}
* [[Russian]]: [[ресница]] ''f''

'''group of strings for lifting certain yarns'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|la|sh|}}

# To strike with a lash; to whip or scourge with a lash, or with something like one.
#:''We lash the pupil, and defraud the ward.'' &mdash; Dryden
# To strike forcibly and quickly, as with a lash; to beat, or beat upon, with a motion like that of a lash.
#:''the whale lashes the sea with its tail.''
#:''And big waves lash the frighted shores.'' &mdash; Dryden
# To throw out with a jerk or quickly.
#:''He falls, and lashing up his heels, his rider throws.'' &mdash; Dryden
# To scold; to berate; to satirize; to censure with severity.
#:''to lash vice''
# To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten.
#:''to lash something to a spar''
#:''lash a pack on a horse's back''

====Translations====
'''strike with a lash'''
{{top}}
*French: [[fouetter]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''strike forcibly, beat as if with a lash'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''throw out with a jerk'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''scold'''
{{top}}
*French: [[gronder]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[rimproverare]]
{{bottom}}

'''bind with a rope'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|la|sh|}}

# To ply the whip; to strike.
# To utter censure or sarcastic language.
#:''To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice.'' &mdash; Dryden

====Translations====
'''ply the whip'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''utter censure'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[lash out]]<!-- to strike out wildly or furiously. -->

[[bg:lash]]
[[fr:lash]]
[[it:lash]]
[[zh:lash]]