==English==

{{rank|blood|copyright|4|528|late|bed|living|view}}

===Etymology===
From Middle English ''late'', from Old English ''[[læt]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/leɪt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-late.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪt|-eɪt]]

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|late|r}}

# Near the end of a period of time.
#: ''It was '''late''' in the evening when we finally arrived.''
# Specifically, near the end of the day.
#: ''It was getting '''late''' and I was tired.''
# (''usually not used comparatively'') Associated with the end of a period.
#: '''''Late''' Latin is less fully inflected than classical Latin.''
# Not arriving until after an expected time.
#: ''Even though we drove as fast as we could, we were still '''late'''.''
# (''not used comparatively'') Euphemism for [[deceased]], particularly when speaking of the dead person's actions while alive.  Often used with ''the''.
#: ''Her '''late''' husband had left her well provided for.''
#: ''The piece was composed by the '''late''' Igor Stravinsky.''
<!-- Is the next meaning an adjective? Or an adverb? Or an interjection?-->
# Abbreviation for the word ''Later'' when used as an informal goodbye.
#: ''Nice talking to you. '''Late'''.''

====Translations====
'''near the end of a period of time'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[laat]]
*Dutch: [[laat]], late
*French: [[tard]]
{{mid}}
*Icelandic: [[seint]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[поздний]] (pózdnij)
{{bottom}}

'''near the end of the day'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[laat]], late
*French: [[tard]]
{{mid}}
*Icelandic: [[seint]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[поздний]] (pózdnij)
{{bottom}}

'''at the end of a period'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[laat]]
*Dutch: [[laat]], late
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[поздний]] (pózdnij)
{{bottom}}

'''not arriving until after an expected time'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[laat]]
*French: [[en retard]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[in ritardo]]
*Russian: [[поздний]] (pózdnij), [[запоздалый]] (zapozdályj)
{{bottom}}

'''dead'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[oorlede]]
*Dutch: [[wijlen]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[défunt]] ''m''
*Russian: [[покойный]] (pokójnyj)
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''late''
====Adverb====
'''late'''

# After a deadline has passed.
#: ''We drove as fast as we could, but we still arrived '''late'''.''

====Related terms====
*[[a day late and a dollar short]]
*[[latecomer]]
*[[lately]]
*[[later]]
*[[late night]]
*[[sooner or later]]

====Translations====
'''proximate in time'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[laat]]
*Basque: [[berandu]]
*Catalan: [[tard]]
*Chinese: [[晚]] (wǎn); [[迟]] (chí)；[[迟到]] (chí dào)
*Croatian: [[pozno]]
*Danish: [[sen]]
*Dutch: [[laat]]
*Esperanto: [[malfrue]]
*Finnish: [[myöhä]], [[myöhäinen]], [[myöhään]]
*French: [[tard]]
*German: [[spät]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[késő]]
*[[Ido]]: [[tarda]]
*Italian:[[tarde#Italian|tarde]]
*Korean: [[늦다]], [[지각하다]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[derneg]], [[gîro]], [[texîr]]
*Portuguese:[[tarde]]
*Romanian: [[târziu]]
*Russian: [[поздно]] (pózdno)
*Slovene: [[pozno]]
*Spanish: [[tarde]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఆలస్యంగా]] (aalasyamgaa)
*Turkish: [[geç]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Time]]

----

==Dutch==

===Adjective===
'''late'''

# Alternate form of [[laat]].

----

==Old English==
===Etymology===
Adverbial form of ''[[læt]]''
===Adverb===
'''late'''

# late

[[Category:Old English adverbs]]

[[fa:late]]
[[fr:late]]
[[io:late]]
[[it:late]]
[[hu:late]]
[[pl:late]]
[[pt:late]]
[[ru:late]]
[[fi:late]]
[[ta:late]]
[[uk:late]]
[[zh:late]]