''See also [[latin]], [[latín]]''
==English==

===Etymology===
{{L.}} ''[[latinus]]'', from ''[[Latium]]'', the region around Rome, possibly from ''[[latus]]'', ''side'', + adjective suffix ''[[-inus]]''

===Adjective===
'''Latin'''
#Of or relating to [[Latium]] (modern [[Lazio]]), the region around Rome.
#Of or relating to the language spoken in ancient Rome.
#Of or relating to the script of the language spoken in ancient Rome and many modern alphabets.
#Of or relating to ancient Rome or its Empire.
#Of or relating to the customs and people descended from the ancient Romans and their Empire.
#Of or from [[Latin America]] or of [[Latin American]] culture.

====Translations====
'''of Latium'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[Latijns]]
*Finnish: [[latinalainen]]
*German: [[Latein]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[latinsk]]
{{bottom}}

'''of the language'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Latijns]]
*Finnish: [[latinalainen]]
* French: [[latin]] ''m'', latine ''f''
*German: [[Lateinisch]] {{n}}
* Italian: [[latino]] ''m'', latina ''f''
{{mid}}
* Swedish: [[latinsk]]
{{bottom}}

'''of the script'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Latijns]]
*Finnish: [[latinalainen]]
*German: [[lateinisch]]
{{mid}}
* Swedish: [[latinsk]]
{{bottom}}

'''of ancient Rome'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Latijns]], [[Romeins]]
*Finnish: [[roomalainen]]
{{mid}}
* Swedish: [[latinsk]], [[romersk]]
{{bottom}}

'''of descendants from ancient Romans'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Latijns]], [[Romeins]]
*Finnish: [[roomalainen]]
*German: [[römisch]]
{{mid}}
* Swedish: [[latinsk]], [[romersk]]
{{bottom}}

'''of/from Latin America'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Latijns]], [[Latijns-Amerikaans]]
*Finnish: [[latinalaisamerikkalainen]]
*German: [[lateinamerikanisch]]
{{mid}}
* Swedish: [[latinsk]], [[latinamerikansk]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Breton}}: latin (1,2,4), [[romanek]] (5)
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[llatí]] ''m'', [[llatina]] ''f''
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[拉丁的]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: latin
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[ラテン]]の
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[latinus]], -a, -um
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: latin ''m'', [[latină]] ''f''
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[latinský]] ''m'', [[latinská]] ''f'', [[latinské]] ''n'' (1,2)
*{{ttbc|Slovenian}}: [[latinski]] ''m'' (1,2), [[latinska]] ''f'' (1,2), [[latinsko]] ''n'' (1,2), [[starorimski]] ''m'' (4), [[starorimska]] ''f'' (4), [[starorimsko]] ''n'' (4)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[latín]], [[latino]], [[latina]]

====Derived terms====
*[[Latin alphabet]]

===Proper noun===
{{en-noun-reg-both}}

# {{uncountable}} The language of the ancient Romans; [[classical Latin]].
# A person native to ancient Rome or its Empire.
# A person who is descended from the ancient Romans.
# A person whose native tongue is one descended from Latin, such as a Spaniard or Italian.<!--do not add "etc" to lists of examples-->

====Derived terms====
*[[classical Latin]]
*[[Ecclesiastical Latin]]
*[[latinate]]
*[[latinist]]
*[[Latinism]]
*[[Medieval Latin]]
*[[New Latin]]
*[[Neo Latin]]

====Related terms====
*[[Latium]]
*[[latus]]
*[[Lazio]]

====Translations====
'''language of the ancient Romans'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Latijn]]
*Finnish: [[latina]]
*French: [[latin]] ''m''
*German: [[Lateinisch]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[latino]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[latin]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''person native to ancient Rome or its Empire'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Romein]]
*Finnish: [[roomalainen]]
*German: [[Römer]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[romare]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''person who is descended from the ancient Romans'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Romein]]
*Finnish: [[roomalainen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''person whose native tongue is one descended from Latin'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[Romaan]]
*Finnish: [[romaanisen kielen puhuja]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Alsatian}}: [[Latein]] ''n'' (1)
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: Lateeniyya ''f''; Lateeni ''adj. m''
*{{ttbc|Asturian}}: [[llatinu]] ''m'' (1)
*{{ttbc|Breton}}: latin ''m'' (1), [[Roman]] ''m'' (2), [[unan a ra gant ur yezh romanek]] (4)
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[llatí]] ''m'', [[llatina]] ''f''
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[拉丁语]] (Lādīng yǔ) (1),[[拉丁人]](2)
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: latin (1)
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: Latin (1)
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[Λατινικά]] (Latinika) ([[:el:Λατινικά|el]])
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[לטינית]] (Latinit)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: Latin (1)
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: Latin (1)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[latino]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[ラテン語]] (Ratengo) (1)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[로마]] (Roma) (2)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: ([[lingua]]) [[Latina]] (1), [[latinus]] ''m'', [[latina]] ''f'' (2)
*{{ttbc|Lebanese}}: El-Lateeneh ''m'' 
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[łaciński]] ''m'', [[łacina]] ''f'' (1), [[łaciń]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: latin ''m'' (1)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: ([[limbă]]) [[latină]] (1), latin (2)
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[Латинский]] (Latinsky, older: Latinskii) (1), [[Латин]] (Latin) (2)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[latinčina]] ''f'' (1); [[Riman]] ''m'', [[Rimanka]] ''f'' (2); [[Roman]] ''m'', [[Romanka]] ''f'' (3, 4)
*{{ttbc|Slovenian}}: [[latinščina]] ''f'' (1), [[Rimljan]] ''m'' (2)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[latín]] (1), [[latino]], -a (2–4)
*{{ttbc|Tatar}}: [[Latín]] (1)
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[Latince]]
*{{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[Латинська]] (Latins'ka) (1)

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary:Latin index|Latin index]]

===External links===
{{interwiktionary|code=la}}
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Latin-english/ Latin - English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster's Dictionary] - the Rosetta Edition.
{{pedialite}}

----

==French==
===Noun===
'''Latin''' ''m''

#Latin (''person'')

====Derived terms====
*[[latiniser]]
*[[latinisme]]
*[[latiniste]]
*[[latinité]]
[[et:Latin]]
[[el:Latin]]
[[fr:Latin]]
[[hi:Latin]]
[[io:Latin]]
[[nl:Latin]]
[[ja:Latin]]
[[no:Latin]]
[[fi:Latin]]