=== Noun ===
'''Latin'''

# Language of the ancient Romans.
# A person native to ancient Rome or its Empire.
# A person who is descended from the ancient Romans.
# A person whose native tongue is one descended from Latin, such as Spanish, French, Italian, etc.

====Translations====
*[[Breton]]: latin ''m'' (1), [[Roman]] ''m'' (2), [[unan a ra gant ur yezh romanek]] (4)
*[[Catalan]]: [[llatí]] ''m'', [[llatina]] ''f''
*[[Dutch]]: [[Latijn]] of [[Latijns]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[latina]] (1), [[roomalainen]] (2), [[romaanisen kielen puhuja]] (4)
*[[French]]: latin ''m''
*[[German]]: [[Latein]] ''n'' (1), [[Römer]] ''m'' (2–3), [[Muttersprachler]] einer [[romanische Sprache|romanischen Sprache]] ''m'' (4)
*[[Hebrew]]: [[לטינית]] (Latinit)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[latino]]
*[[Italian]]: [[latino]] ''m''
*Latin: ([[lingua]]) [[Latina]] (1), [[latinus]] ''m'', [[latina]] ''f'' (2)
*[[Romanian]]: ([[limbă]]) [[latină]] (1), latin (2)
*[[Slovak]]: [[latinčina]] ''f'' (1)
*[[Slovenian]]: [[latinščina]] ''f'' (1), [[Rimljan]] ''m'' (2)
*[[Spanish]]: [[latín]] (1), [[latino]], -a (2–4)
*[[Swedish]]: latin (1), [[romare]] (2,3)

=== Adjective ===
'''latin'''

# Having to do with the language spoken in ancient Rome.
# Having to do with ancient Rome or its Empire.
# Denoting involvement with the customs and people descended from the ancient Romans and their Empire.

====Translations====
*[[Breton]]: latin (1,2), [[romanek]] (3)
*[[Catalan]]: [[llatí]] ''m'', [[llatina]] ''f''
*[[Dutch]]]: [[Latijn]] of [[Latijns]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[latinalainen]] (1), [[roomalainen]] (2,3)
*[[French]]: latin
*[[German]]: [[lateinisch]] (1), [[römisch]] (2,3)
*[[Interlingua]]: latin
*[[Italian]]: latino ''m'', latina ''f''
*Latin: [[latinus]], -a, -um
*[[Romanian]]: latin ''m'', [[latină]] ''f''
*[[Slovak]]: [[latinský]] ''m'', [[latinská]] ''f'', [[latinské]] ''n'' (1)
*[[Slovenian]]: [[latinski]] ''m'' (1), [[latinska]] ''f'' (1), [[latinsko]] ''n'' (1), [[starorimski]] ''m'' (2), [[starorimska]] ''f'' (2), [[starorimsko]] ''n'' (2)
*[[Spanish]]: [[latín]], [[latino]]
*[[Swedish]]: [[latinsk]] (1), [[romersk]] (2,3)

=== Related Terms ===
*[[latinate]]
*[[latinist]]

*[[Medieval Latin]]
*[[New Latin]]
*[[Neo Latin]]

==== External links====
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Latin-english/ Latin - English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster's Dictionary] - the Rosetta Edition.