==English==

===Pronunciation===
*US: {{IPA|/læf/}}, {{SAMPA|/l{f/}}
*British, Australia: {{SAMPA|/lA:f/}}
*{{audio|en-us-laugh.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːf|-ɑːf]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[hlæhhan]]'', ''[[hlihhan]]'', ''[[hliehhan]]''

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To show [[mirth]], [[satisfaction]], or [[derision]], by [[peculiar]] [[movement]] of the [[muscle]]s of the [[face]], particularly of the [[mouth]], causing a [[lighting]] up of the face and [[eye]]s, and usually accompanied by the [[emission]] of [[explosive]] or [[chuckling]] [[sound]]s from the [[chest]] and [[throat]]; to [[indulge]] in [[laughter]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Queen Hecuba '''laughed''' that her eyes ran o'er. - Shakespeare, ''Troilus and Cressida, I-ii''
#:*He '''laugheth''' that winneth. - [[Heywood's Prov.]]
#{{figurative}} To be or appear gay, cheerful, pleasant, mirthful, lively, or brilliant; to sparkle; to sport.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Then '''laughs''' the childish year, with flowerets crowned. - [[Dryden]]
#:*In Folly's cup still '''laughs''' the bubble Joy. - [[Pope]]
#To laugh at, to make an object of laughter or ridicule; to make fun of; to deride.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*No wit to flatter left of all his store, No fool to '''laugh''' at, which he valued more. - [[Pope]]

====Related terms====
*'''To laugh in the sleeve'''&mdash; or '''to laugh up one's sleeve''': to laugh secretly, or so as not to be observed, especially while apparently preserving a grave or serious demeanor toward the person or persons laughed at
*'''To laugh out''': to laugh in spite of some restraining influence; to laugh aloud
*'''To laugh out of the other corner (or side) of the mouth''', ''(Slang):'' to weep or cry; to feel regret, vexation, or disappointment after hilarity or exaltation

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[lag]]
*Albanian: [[qesh]]
*Breton: [[c'hoarzhin]]
*Catalan: [[riure]]
*Chinese: [[笑]] (xiào)
*Croatian: [[smijati]] (se)
*Danish: [[le]]
*Dutch: [[lachen]]
*Esperanto: [[ridi]]
*Finnish: [[nauraa]]
*French: [[rire]]
*German: [[lachen]]
*[[Gothic]]: [[hlahjan]]
*Guaraní: [[puka]]
*Hawaiian: [['aka]]
*Hebrew: [[צחק]]
*Hungarian: [[nevet]]
*Icelandic: [[hlæja]]
*[[Ido]]: [[ridar]]
*Indonesian: [[tawa|tertawa]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[rider]]
*Italian: [[ridere]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[笑う]] (わらう, warau)
*Latin: [[ridere]]
*[[Kurdish]]: {{trad|ku|kenîn}}
*[[Lojban]]: [[cmila]] (1), [[mi'afra]] (2)
*Malaysian: [[ketawa]]
*Maori: [[kata]]
*Norwegian: [[le]]
*Old English: [[hlæhhan]], [[hliehhan]]
*Portuguese: [[rir]]
*Romanian: [[râde]]
*Samoan: [['ata]]
*Slovak: [[smiech]], [[rehot]]
*Spanish: [[reír]]
*Swahili: [[kucheka]]
*Swedish: [[skratta]]
*Tongan: [[kata]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[puká]]
*Turkish: [[gülmek]]
*Vietnamese: [[cười]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To affect or influence by means of laughter or [[ridicule]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Will you '''laugh''' me asleep, for I am very heavy? - Shakespeare, ''Tempest, II-i''
#:*I shall '''laugh''' myself to death. - Shakespeare, ''Tempest, II-ii''
#To express by, or utter with, laughter; &mdash; with out.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*From his deep chest '''laughs''' out a loud applause. - Shakespeare, ''Troilus and Cressida, I-iii''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Finnish]]: [[naurattaa]]
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: {{trad|ku|kenandin}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
*'''To laugh away'''
*:To drive away by laughter; as, to '''laugh away''' regret
*:To waste in hilarity
*::'''Quotations'''
*::*Pompey doth this day '''laugh away''' his fortune." Shakespeare, ''Antony and Cleopatra, II-vi''
*'''To laugh down'''
*:To cause to cease or desist by laughter; as, to '''laugh down''' a speaker
*:To cause to be given up on account of ridicule; as, to '''laugh down''' a reform
*'''To laugh one out of''': to cause one by laughter or ridicule to abandon or give up; as, to '''laugh one out of''' a plan or purpose
*'''To laugh to scorn''': to deride; to treat with mockery, contempt, and scorn; to despise.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#An expression of [[mirth]] peculiar to the human [[species]]; the sound heard in laughing; laughter. (See the intransitive verb above.)
#Something that provokes mirth or scorn.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*And the loud '''laugh''' that spoke the vacant mind. - [[Goldsmith]]
#:*That man is a bad man who has not within him the power of a hearty '''laugh'''. - [[F. W. Robertson]]

====Translations====
(Translations see at ''[[laughter]]'')
===Related terms===
*''[[laughter]]''
*[[the last laugh]]
*[[laugh track]] = recorded laughter mixed in with a performance.

===Synonyms===
*[[chuckle]]
*[[giggle]]
*[[guffaw]]
*[[titter]]
*[[cackle]]
*[[chortle]]
*[[snigger]]
*[[snicker]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Laughter]]

[[de:laugh]]
[[es:laugh]]
[[fr:laugh]]
[[ko:laugh]]
[[io:laugh]]
[[it:laugh]]
[[kk:laugh]]
[[hu:laugh]]
[[pt:laugh]]
[[sk:laugh]]
[[fi:laugh]]
[[sv:laugh]]
[[ta:laugh]]
[[vi:laugh]]
[[uk:laugh]]
[[zh:laugh]]