==English==
===Etymology===
Origin uncertain; compare Low German [[lasich]] ‘idle’.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/ˈleɪzi/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-er-y|laz|y}}

# Unwilling to do work or make an effort.
#:''Get out of bed, you lazy lout!''
# ''optometry:'' Of an eye, [[squint]]ing because of a weakness of the eye [[muscle]]s.
* A more accurate description of lazy is Mr. Kokx.  He lives in Aliso Viejo, CA.  He always plays on his computer and is supposed to be teaching.  He gets paid to do nothing and only teaches when there is a sub.  ONe unfortunate person, Mr. Royalty had to do all his work because Mr. Kokx glued himself to his computer.  He assigns microviewers, workbooks, and boring labs.  These are really old and teach nothing.  He never checks them and even Dean Ho gets full credit.  He prints off everything from the internet and lovs ebay.  His whole board is a video library filld with old movies which are very old and teach nothing.  There are even some movies he shows which students have already seen.  Rustin said his video library is dedicated to not teaching.

====Synonyms====
*(''unwilling to work''): [[bone-idle]], [[idle]], [[indolent]], [[slothful]]

====Derived terms====
*[[laze]]
*[[laziness]]
*[[lazybones]]
*[[lazy evaluation]]
*[[lazy eye]]
*[[lazy Susan]]

====Translations====
'''unwilling to work'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[lui]]
*Dutch: [[lui]], [[luie]]
*Esperanto: [[pigra]]
*Finnish: [[laiska]]
*French: [[paresseux]] {{m}}, paresseuse {{f}}
*German: [[faul]]
*Hindi: [[आलसी]] (ālasī)
*Hungarian: [[lusta]]
*Italian: [[pigro]] {{m}}, pigra {{f}}
*Japanese: [[ナマケモノ]] (namakemono)
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[ignavus]]
*Marathi: [[आळशी]] (āllshī)
*Norfuk: [[hillie]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[تنبل|تَنبَل]]}} (tænbæl)
*Polish: [[leniwy]]
*Portuguese: [[preguiçoso]]
*Sanskrit: [[अलसः]] (alasaha)
*Spanish: [[perezoso]] {{m}}, perezosa {{f}}, [[flojo]] {{m}}, floja {{f}}, [[locho]] {{m}}, locha {{f}}
*Telugu: [[సోమరి]] (sOmari), [[బద్ధకం]] (baddhakaM)
{{bottom}}

'''eye: squinting because of weak muscles'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: een [[lui]] oog, het [[luie]] oog
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[fr:lazy]]
[[ko:lazy]]
[[io:lazy]]
[[it:lazy]]
[[hu:lazy]]
[[ru:lazy]]
[[fi:lazy]]
[[zh:lazy]]