*'''Chemical element''': '''[[Pb]]''' (Atomic Number: 82)
**Previous: [[Thallium|Tl]]
**Next: [[Bismuth|Bi]]
----
===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[led]]'', ''[[leed]]'', ''lead'', Anglo Saxon ''[[leád]]''; akin to Dutch ''[[lood]]'', Middle High German ''[[l&#333;t]]'', German ''[[loth]]'' plummet, sounding lead, small weight, Swedish and Danish ''[[lod]]''
==== Pronunciation ====
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /lEd/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /lεd/
==== Homophones ====
[[led]]
==== Noun ====
'''lead''' 
#''(Chemistry):'' One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic number 82, Atomic weight 206.4, Specific Gravity 11.37, Symbol Pb (from Latin ''[[Plumbum]]''). It is chiefly obtained from the mineral [[galena]].
#An article made of lead or an alloy of lead; as: 
#::(a) A plummet or mass of lead, used in sounding at sea. 
#::(b) (Print.) A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of type in printing.
#::(c) Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs; hence, the plural, a roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I would have the tower two stories, and goodly '''leads''' upon the top. - Bacon
#A small cylinder of black lead or [[plumbago]], used in pencils. 
=====Derived expressions=====
*'''Black lead''', ''(Colloquial)'': graphite or plumbago -- so called from its leadlike appearance and streak. 
*'''Coasting lead:''', a sounding lead intermediate in weight between a hand lead and deep-sea lead
*'''Deep-sea lead:''' the heaviest of sounding leads, used in water exceeding a hundred [[fathom]]s in depth.  - [[Hamersley, Naval Encyclopaedia]]
*'''Hand lead:''' a small lead use for sounding in shallow water.
*'''Krems lead''', or '''Kremnitz lead''', [so called from Krems or Kremnitz, in Austria]: a pure variety of white lead, formed into tablets, and called also Krems, or Kremnitz, white, and Vienna white.
*'''Lead arming:''' tallow put in the hollow of a sounding lead. See '''To arm the lead''' (below).
*'''Lead colic:''' See under [[Colic]]
*'''Lead colour:''' a deep bluish gray color, like tarnished lead
*'''Lead glance,''' ''(Mineralogy):'' Same as Galena
*'''Lead line
*::(a) ''(Medicine):'' A dark line along the gums produced by a deposit of metallic lead, due to lead poisoning. 
*::(b) ''(Nautical):'' A sounding line
*'''Lead mill:''' a leaden polishing wheel, used by lapidaries
*'''Lead ocher,''' ''(Mineralogy):'' a massive sulphur-yellow oxide of lead. Same as [[Massicot]]
*'''Lead pencil:''' a pencil of which the marking material is graphite (black lead)
*'''Lead plant, ''(Botany):'' a low leguminous plant, ''Amorpha canescens'', found in the Northwestern United States, where its presence is supposed to indicate lead ore. - [[Asa Gray]]
*'''Lead tree:'''
*::(a) ''(Botany):'' A West Indian name for the tropical, leguminous tree, ''Leucæna glauca''; -- probably so called from the glaucous color of the foliage. 
*::(b) ''(Chemistry):'' Lead crystallized in arborescent forms from a solution of some lead salt, as by suspending a strip of zinc in lead acetate
*'''Mock lead:''' a miner's term for [[blende]]
*'''Red lead:''' a scarlet, crystalline, granular powder, consisting of minium when pure, but commonly containing several of the oxides of lead. It is used as a paint or cement and also as an ingredient of flint glass
*'''Red lead ore,''' ''(Mineralogy):'' [[crocoite]]
*'''Sugar of lead:''' acetate of lead
*'''To arm the lead''': to fill the hollow in the bottom of a sounding lead with tallow in order to discover the nature of the bottom by the substances adhering. - [[Hamersley, Naval Encyclopaedia]]
*'''To cast, or heave, the lead''': to cast the sounding lead for ascertaining the depth of water. 
*'''White lead''': hydrated carbonate of lead, obtained as a white, amorphous powder, and much used as an ingredient of white paint.

=====External links=====
*[[w:Lead]]
*http://elements.vanderkrogt.net/elem/pb.html (A lot of the translations were taken from that site with permission from the author)

===== Translations =====
'''for the element'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=32%|
{|
*Afrikaans: [[lood]]
*Albanian: [[plumb]]
*Arabic: [[رصاص]]
*Armenian: [[plumbu]]
*Basque: [[beruna]]
*Belarussian: [[цвiнец]]
*Bosnian: [[olovo]]
*Breton: [[plom]] ''m'' ''pl'' plomoù
*Bulgarian: [[олово]]
*Catalan: [[plom]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[鉛]]
*Cornish: [[plom]]
*Croatian: [[olovo]]
*Czech: [[olovo]]
*Danish: [[bly]]
*Dutch: [[lood]] ''n''
*Esperanto: [[plumbo]]
*Estonian: [[plii]]
*Faroese: [[blýggj]]
*Finnish: [[lyijy]]
*French: [[plomb]] ''m''
*Frisian: lead ''n''
*Friulian: [[plomp]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=32%|
{|
*Galician: [[chumbo]]
*Georgian: [[ტყვია]]
*German: [[Blei]] ''n''
*Hebrew: [[עופרת]]
*Hungarian: [[ólom]]
*Icelandic: [[blý]]
*Indonesian: [[timbal]]
*Irish: [[luaidhe]]
*Italian: [[piombo]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[鉛]] ([[なまり]] (namari)
*Kashmiri: [[òłów]]
*Kazakh: [[Къогъасын]] (needs to be decapitalized)
*Latin: [[plumbum]]
*Latvian: [[svins]]
*Lithuanian: [[Švinas]]
*Luxembourgish: [[bläi]]
*Macedonian: [[олово]]
*Malay: [[plumbum]]
*Maltese: [[Ċomb]]
*Manx: [[leoaie]]
*Modern Greek: [[Μολυβδος]] '' ''  (needs to be decapitalized)
*Mongolian: [[Хар]] (needs to be decapitalized)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=32%|
{|
*Norwegian: [[bly]]
*Persian: [[سرب]] (sorb)
*Polish: [[ołów]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[chumbo]]
*Romanian: [[plumb]] ''n''
*Russian: [[свинец]] ''m''
*Scottish Gaelic: [[luaidh]]
*Serbian: [[олово]]
*Slovak: [[olovo]]
*Slovenian: [[svinec]]
*Spanish: [[plomo]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[bly]]
*Tajik: [[surb]]
*Thai: [[ตะกั้ว]]
*Turkish: [[kurşun]]
*Ukrainian: [[свинець]]
*Uzbek: [[Кўогъшсин]] (needs to be decapitalized)
*Vietnamese: [[chì]]
*Welsh: [[plwm]]
|}
|}

====Verb====
'''lead, leaded, leading'''
#To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads the grooves of a rifle.
#''(Printing):'' To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded matter. 

===Etymology 2===
Middle English ''[[leden]]'', from Old English [[lædan|lǣdan]]; Anglo Saxon ''[[ldan]]'' (akin to Old Saxon ''[[ldian]]'', Dutch ''[[leiden]]'', German ''[[leiten]]'', Icelandic ''[[lea]]'', Swedish ''[[leda]]'', Danish ''[[lede]]''), properly a causative from Anglo Saxon ''[[lian]]'' to go; akin to Old High German ''[[la]]'', Icelandic ''[[la]]'', Gothic ''[[leipan]]'' (in comparatives). Compare ''[[lode]]'', ''[[loath]]''

==== Pronunciation ====
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: //
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /li:d/

==== Transitive verb ====
'''lead''' [[led]], [[leading]]'''
#To guide or conduct with the hand, or by means of some physical contact connection; as, a father leads a child; a jockey leads a horse with a halter; a dog leads a blind man.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*If a blind man '''lead''' a blind man, both fall down in the ditch. - [[John Wyclif]] on ''Matthew 15:14''
#:*They thrust him out of the city, and '''led''' him unto the brow of the hill. - ''Luke 4:29
#:*In thy right hand lead with thee The mountain nymph, sweet Liberty. - [[John Milton]]
#To guide or conduct in a certain course, or to a certain place or end, by making the way known; to show the way, especially by going with or going in advance of, to lead a pupil; to [[guide]] somebody somewhere or to [[bring]] somebody somewhere by means of [[instruction]]s. Hence, figuratively: To direct; to counsel; to instruct; as, to lead a traveler.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to '''lead''' them the way. - ''Exodus 13:21
#:*He '''leadeth''' me beside the still waters. - ''Psalms 23:2
#:*This thought might '''lead''' me through the world's vain mask. Content, though blind, had I no better guide. Milton.
#To conduct or direct with authority; to have direction or charge of; as, to '''lead''' an army, an exploring party, or a search; to lead a political party; to [[command]], especially a [[military]] or [[business]] unit
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Christ took not upon him flesh and blood that he might conquer and rule nations, '''lead''' armies, or possess places. [[Robert South]]?. ''could be Wilton or Eudora''.
#To go or to be in advance of; to precede; hence, to be foremost or chief among; as, the big sloop led the fleet of yachts; the Guards led the attack; Demosthenes leads the orators of all ages.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*As Hesperus, that leads the sun his way. - Fairfax.
#:*And lo ! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. - [[Leigh Hunt]]
#To draw or direct by influence, whether good or bad; to prevail on; to induce; to entice; to allure; as, to lead one to espouse a righteous cause.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He was driven by the necessities of the times, more than led by his own disposition, to any rigor of actions.  - [[Eikon Basilike]]
#:*Silly women, laden with sins, '''led''' away by divers lusts. - ''2 Timothy 3:6 (Revised Version)''.
#To guide or conduct one's self in, through, or along (a certain course); hence, to proceed in the way of; to follow the path or course of; to pass; to spend. Also, to cause (one) to proceed or follow in (a certain course).
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life. - ''1 Timothy 2:2''
#:*Nor thou with shadowed hint confuse A life that leads melodious days. - [[Alfred Tennyson]]
#:*You remember . . . the life he used to lead his wife and daughter. - [[Charles Dickens]]
#''(Cards and Dominoes):'' To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the double five was led. 

=====Derived expressions=====
*'''To lead astray,''' to guide in a wrong way, or into error; to seduce from truth or rectitude
*'''To lead captive:''' to carry or bring into captivity
*'''To lead the way:''' to show the way by going in front; to act as guide. - [[Oliver Goldsmith]]

===== Translations =====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Breton: [[ren]], [[kas]], [[bleinañ]]
*Dutch: [[leiden]] (1,2), 
*Finnish: [[opastaa]] (1), [[ohjata]] (1), [[johdattaa]] (1), [[johtaa]] (2)
*Frisian: [[stjoere]] (1), [[liede]] (2)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*German: [[führen]], [[leiten]]
*Greek: (Ancient): [[ἄγω]]
*Polish: [[prowadzić]] (1), [[dowodzić]] (2)
*Russian: [[вести]](1), [[возглавлять]](2)
|}
|}
==== Intransitive verb====
#To guide or conduct, as by accompanying, going before, showing, influencing, directing with authority, etc.; to have precedence or preëminence; to be first or chief; -- used in most of the senses of the transitive verb.
#To be [[ahead]] of others, e.g. in a [[race]]
#To have the highest interim [[score]] in a [[game]]
#To be more advanced in [[technology]] or [[business]] than others
#To tend or reach in a certain direction, or to a certain place; as, the path leads to the mill; gambling leads to other vices.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The mountain foot that '''leads''' towards Mantua. - Shakespeare, ''Two Gentlemen of Verona'' V-ii
#To lead off ∨ out, to go first; to begin.

===== Translations =====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Breton: [[bezañ e penn]], [[bezañ o charreat]]
*Català: [[guiar]]
*Dutch: [[leiden]], [[begeleiden]], [[meevoeren]]
*Finnish: [[johtaa]] (1, 2, 3), [[olla]] [[edellä]] (3)
*French: [[conduire]]
*German: [[führen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Indonesian: [[pimpin]], [[bimbing]], [[tffuntun]]
*Italian: [[portare]], [[guidare]]
*Japanese: [[導く]] ([[みちびく]], michibiku)
*Polish: [[prowadzić]] (1, 2), [[przodować]] (3)
*Romanian: [[a conduce]], [[a îndruma]]
*Russian: [[лидировать]](1), [[выигрывать]](2), [[опережать]](3)
|}
|}

[[Category:Chemical elements]]
[[pl:lead]]

====Noun====
'''lead'''
#The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction; as, to take the lead; to be under the lead of another.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*At the time I speak of, and having a momentary '''lead''', . . . I am sure I did my country important service. - [[Edmund Burke]]
#Precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence; as, the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat's length, or of half a second; the state of being ahead in a race; the highest score in a game in an incomplete game.
#''(Cards and Dominoes):'' The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead.
#An open way in an ice field. - [[Elisha Kent Kane]]? ''could be Paul Kane''
#''(Mining):'' A lode
#''(Nautical):'' The course of a rope from end to end.
#A rope, leather strap, or similar device with which to lead an animal; a [[leash]]
#''(Steam Engine):'' The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is at end of its stroke. 
#:'''Note:''' When used alone it means outside lead, or lead for the admission of steam. '''Inside lead''' refers to the release or exhaust.
#''(Civil Engineering):'' the distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment.
#''(Horology) The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling another tooth or a pallet. - [[Claudias Saunier]]

=====Derived expressions=====
*'''Lead angle,''' ''(Steam Engine):'' the angle which the crank maker with the line of centers, in approaching it, at the instant when the valve opens to admit steam
*'''Lead screw,''' ''(Machines):'' the main longitudinal screw of a lathe, which gives the feed motion to the carriage. 

=====Translations=====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Breton: [[roll]] ''m pl'' rolloù,  delc'her en e roll / gant ar roll
*Finnish: [[talutushihna]] (1), [[johtoasema]] (2), [[johto]] (2, 3), [[kärkitulos]] (3)
|}
|}



very hot website:

[http://www.funasia.cn 装修]
[http://www.funasia.cn http://www.funasia.cn] 
[http://www.funasia.cn 团购] 
[http://www.funasia.cn http://www.funasia.cn]
[http://www.haishun.net 门禁] 
[http://www.haishun.net http://www.haishun.net] 
[http://haishun11.51.net 虚拟主机] 
[http://haishun11.51.net http://haishun11.51.net] 
[http://fireworks.garrywa.com fireworks] 
[http://fireworks.garrywa.com http://fireworks.garrywa.com] 
[http://global.garrywa.com/index1.htm gemstone globe] 
[http://global.garrywa.com/index1.htm http://global.garrywa.com/index1.htm] 
[http://www.haishun.net 监控] 
[http://www.haishun.net http://www.haishun.net] 
[http://www.fm360.net 网址大全] 
[http://www.fm360.net http://www.fm360.net]
[http://www.tjwatch.com 手表] 
[http://www.tjwatch.com http://www.tjwatch.com] 
[http://www.hdfix.com.cn 数据恢复] 
[http://www.hdfix.com.cn http://www.hdfix.com.cn] 
[http://www.conjhost.com 虚拟主机] 
[http://www.conjhost.com http://www.conjhost.com] 
[http://fireworks.garrywa.com/fireworks/fireworks.htm fireworks] 
[http://fireworks.garrywa.com/fireworks/fireworks.htm http://fireworks.garrywa.com/fireworks/fireworks.htm] 
[http://www.feilun.com.cn 离心机] 
[http://www.feilun.com.cn http://www.feilun.com.cn]
[http://www.3335555.com 化学试剂]
[http://www.3335555.com http://www.3335555.com] 
[http://www.33335556.com 媒体]
[http://www.33335556.com http://www.33335556.com] 
[http://www.3332226.com 二手笔记本] 
[http://www.3332226.com http://www.3332226.com] 
[http://www.3335558.com 手套] 
[http://www.3335558.com http://www.3335558.com] 
[http://www.3332228.com 发动机] 
[http://www.3332228.com http://www.3332228.com] 
[http://www.3336668.com 免费下载电影]
[http://www.3336668.com 免费下载电影] 
[http://www.3332228.com http://www.3332228.com] 
[http://www.3332228.com 发动机] 
[http://www.3332228.com http://www.3332228.com] 
[http://www.5556661.com 水泥] 
[http://www.5556661.com http://www.5556661.com] 
[http://www.5556663.com 塑料制品] 
[http://www.5556663.com http://www.5556663.com]
[http://www.5556668.com 机床]
[http://www.5556668.com http://www.5556668.com]
[http://www.5556669.com 免费音乐下载]
[http://www.5556669.com http://www.5556669.com]
[http://www.5558881.com 随身听]
[http://www.5558881.com http://www.5558881.com]
[http://www.5558882.com 防水材料] 
[http://www.5558882.com http://www.5558882.com]
[http://www.5558883.com 纺织机械] 
[http://www.5558883.com http://www.5558883.com] 
[http://www.5558886.com 耐火材料 ]
[http://www.5558886.com http://www.5558886.com] 
[http://www.5558889.com http://www.5558889.com] 
[http://www.5558889.com 肺结核] 
[http://www.6668883.com 肺炎] 
[http://www.6668883.com http://www.6668883.com] 
[http://www.6668886.com 风机] 
[http://www.6668886.com http://www.6668886.com] 
[http://www.6668889.com 家居装饰]
[http://www.6668889.com http://www.6668889.com] 
[http://www.7773336.com 啤酒] 
[http://www.7773336.com http://www.7773336.com] 
[http://www.7775556.com 脱发] 
[http://www.7775556.com http://www.7775556.com] 
[http://www.7775558.com 钢板] 
[http://www.7775558.com http://www.7775558.com] 
[http://www.7775559.com 汽车美容] 
[http://www.7775559.com http://www.7775559.com] 
[http://www.6667773.com 网络电话] 
[http://www.6667773.com http://www.6667773.com] 
[http://www.6667775.com 监理] 
[http://www.6667775.com http://www.6667775.com ] 
[http://www.6667776.com 减速机] 
[http://www.6667776.com http://www.6667776.com] 
[http://www.6667777.com 钢板网] 
[http://www.6667777.com http://www.6667777.com] 
[http://www.6667778.com 钢管] 
[http://www.6667778.com http://www.6667778.com] 
[http://www.6667779.com 网络设备] 
[http://www.6667779.com http://www.6667779.com] 
[http://www.8883335.com 洗衣机]
[http://www.8883335.com http://www.8883335.com] 
[http://www.8883336.com 显卡] 
[http://www.8883336.com http://www.8883336.com] 
[http://www.8883338.com 显示器]
[http://www.8883338.com http://www.8883338.com]
[http://www.8883339.com 橡胶]
[http://www.8883339.com http://www.8883339.com]
[http://www.8885553.com 刀具] 
[http://www.8885553.com http://www.8885553.com]
[http://www.8885556.com 电视机]
[http://www.8885556.com http://www.8885556.com] 
[http://www.8885558.com 锅炉] 
[http://www.8885558.com http://www.8885558.com] 
[http://www.8886663.com 二手车] 
[http://www.8886663.com http://www.8886663.com]
[http://www.8886665.com 滑板] 
[http://www.8886665.com http://www.8886665.com] 
[http://www.8886668.com 眼镜] 
[http://www.8886668.com http://www.8886668.com]
[http://www.8886669.com 办公用品]
[http://www.8886669.com http://www.8886669.com] 
[http://www.8888886.com 防盗门]
[http://www.8888886.com http://www.8888886.com]
[http://www.8888885.com 包装机] 
[http://www.8888885.com http://www.8888885.com]
[http://www.9993333.com 仪器]
[http://www.9993333.com http://www.9993333.com]
[http://www.9993335.com 保温材料] 
[http://www.9993335.com http://www.9993335.com]
[http://www.9993336.com 继电器]
[http://www.9993336.com http://www.9993336.com] 
[http://www.9993338.com 变频器] 
[http://www.9993338.com http://www.9993338.com] 
[http://www.9993339.com 包装机械]
[http://www.9993339.com http://www.9993339.com] 
[http://www.9995555.com 办公家具]
[http://www.9995555.com http://www.9995555.com]
[http://www.9995556.com 复印机]
[http://www.9995556.com http://www.9995556.com]
[http://www.9995558.com 货运]
[http://www.9995558.com http://www.9995558.com]
[http://www.9995559.com 高尔夫] 
[http://www.9995559.com http://www.9995559.com] 
[http://shipintj.51.net 视频] 
[http://shipintj.51.net http://shipintj.51.net] 
[http://tjunderwear.51.net 内衣] 
[http://tjunderwear.51.net http://tjunderwear.51.net]
[http://jessica00.51.net 糖尿病] 
[http://jessica00.51.net http://jessica00.51.net]
[http://ticai.51.net 体育彩票] 
[http://ticai.51.net http://ticai.51.net] 
[http://e2008net.51.net 网页制作]
[http://e2008net.51.net http://e2008net.51.net] 
[http://tomcat00.51.net 性病] 
[http://tomcat00.51.net http://tomcat00.51.net]
[http://cisco00.51.net CISCO]
[http://cisco00.51.net http://cisco00.51.net] 
[http://ohmyvod.51.net VOD]
[http://ohmyvod.51.net http://ohmyvod.51.net] 
[http://notebook1.51.net 笔记本] 
[http://notebook1.51.net http://notebook1.51.net] 
[http://notebook2.51.net 笔记本电脑] 
[http://notebook2.51.net http://notebook2.51.net]
[http://adult001.51.net 成人用品] 
[http://adult001.51.net http://adult001.51.net]
[http://cancer007.51.net 癌症] 
[http://cancer007.51.net http://cancer007.51.net] 
[http://translateone.51.net 翻译]
[http://translateone.51.net http://translateone.51.net]
[http://drinkery.51.net 酒店] 
[http://drinkery.51.net http://drinkery.51.net] 
[http://manager007.51.net 管理咨询] 
[http://manager007.51.net http://manager007.51.net] 
[http://bigscreen.51.net 大屏幕]
[http://bigscreen.51.net http://bigscreen.51.net] 
[http://mp3first.51.net mp3]
[http://mp3first.51.net http://mp3first.51.net] 
[http://present.51.net 礼品] 
[http://present.51.net http://present.51.net]
[http://studyabroad.51.net 留学]
[http://studyabroad.51.net http://studyabroad.51.net]
[http://tour123.51.net 旅游]
[http://tour123.51.net http://tour123.51.net]
[http://train123.51.net 培训]
[http://train123.51.net http://train123.51.net] 
[http://ourauto.51.net 汽车]
[http://ourauto.51.net http://ourauto.51.net] 
[http://mobiletele.51.net 手机] 
[http://mobiletele.51.net http://mobiletele.51.net] 
[http://freshflowers.51.net 鲜花]
[http://freshflowers.51.net http://freshflowers.51.net]
[http://migration.51.net 移民] 
[http://migration.51.net http://migration.51.net] 
[http://myapply.51.net 招聘] 
[http://myapply.51.net http://myapply.51.net]
[http://decorate.51.net 装修] 
[http://decorate.51.net http://decorate.51.net]
[http://zufang001.51.net 租房]
[http://zufang001.51.net http://zufang001.51.net]
[http://videomarket.51.net MBA] 
[http://videomarket.51.net http://videomarket.51.net] 
[http://email8888bada.51.net 门禁] 
[http://email8888bada.51.net http://email8888bada.51.net] 
[http://asp169.51.net 乙肝] 
[http://asp169.51.net http://asp169.51.net]
[http://cnnet21.51.net 游戏]
[http://cnnet21.51.net http://cnnet21.51.net]
[http://asp169net.51.net 游戏下载] 
[http://asp169net.51.net http://asp169net.51.net] 
[http://guanghui16.51.net 仪器]
[http://guanghui16.51.net http://guanghui16.51.net]
[http://juyolo.51.net 数码相机]
[http://juyolo.51.net http://juyolo.51.net]
[http://guanghui6.51.net 网站建设] 
[http://guanghui6.51.net http://guanghui6.51.net]
[http://guanghui1.51.net erp]
[http://guanghui1.51.net http://guanghui1.51.net]
[http://guanghui4.51.net flash]
[http://guanghui4.51.net thttp://guanghui4.51.net]
[http://guanghui5.51.net mp3下载]
[http://guanghui5.51.net http://guanghui5.51.net]
[http://guanghui7.51.net 爱滋病] 
[http://guanghui7.51.net http://guanghui7.51.net] 
[http://guanghui8.51.net 办公自动化]
[http://guanghui8.51.net http://guanghui8.51.net] 
[http://guanghui9.51.net 出国]
[http://guanghui9.51.net http://guanghui9.51.net]
[http://guanghui11.51.net 短信] 
[http://guanghui11.51.net http://guanghui11.51.net]
[http://guanghui12.51.net 对讲机]
[http://guanghui12.51.net http://guanghui12.51.net] 
[http://guanghui13.51.net 干燥设备] 
[http://guanghui13.51.net http://guanghui13.51.net]
[http://guanghui14.51.net 会计师事务所] 
[http://guanghui14.51.net http://guanghui14.51.net]
[http://guanghui15.51.net 货架]
[http://guanghui15.51.net http://guanghui15.51.net]
[http://guanhui21.51.net 交友]
[http://guanhui21.51.net http://guanhui21.51.net]
[http://guanghui71.51.net 聊天] 
[http://guanghui71.51.net http://guanghui71.51.net] 
[http://guanhui585.51.net 美女] 
[http://guanhui585.51.net http://guanhui585.51.net]
[http://www.haishun.net 监控] 
[http://www.haishun.net http://www.haishun.net]
[http://www.haishun.net 门禁] 
[http://www.haishun.net http://www.haishun.net]
[http://www.tjwatch.com 手表] 
[http://www.tjwatch.com http://www.tjwatch.com]
[http://www.fm360.net 网址大全]
[http://www.fm360.net http://www.fm360.net] 
[http://www.ss-cn.com 不锈钢] 
[http://www.ss-cn.com http://www.ss-cn.com]
[http://www.printer-cn.com 打印机] 
[http://www.printer-cn.com http://www.printer-cn.com] 
[http://www.stst-cn.com 钢结构]
[http://www.stst-cn.com http://www.stst-cn.com]
[http://www.cn-computer.com 计算机]
[http://www.cn-computer.com http://www.cn-computer.com]
[http://www.joinin-cn.com 加盟]
[http://www.joinin-cn.com http://www.joinin-cn.com]
[http://www.coma-cn.com 建筑材料]
[http://www.coma-cn.com http://www.coma-cn.com]
[http://www.t-agency.com 旅行社] 
[http://www.t-agency.com http://www.t-agency.com] 
[http://www.cor-admin.com 企业管理]
[http://www.cor-admin.com http://www.cor-admin.com] 
[http://www.human-cn.com 人力资源] 
[http://www.human-cn.com http://www.human-cn.com]
[http://www.webpage-cn.com 网页设计]
[http://www.webpage-cn.com http://www.webpage-cn.com] 
[http://www.168marketing.com 市场营销] 
[http://www.168marketing.com http://www.168marketing.com]
[http://www.66interior.com 室内设计] 
[http://www.66interior.com http://www.66interior.com] 
[http://www.66cellphone.com 手机] 
[http://www.66cellphone.com http://www.66cellphone.com]
[http://www.88feedstuff.com 饲料]
[http://www.88feedstuff.com http://www.88feedstuff.com]
[http://www.china-dope.com 涂料] 
[http://www.china-dope.com http://www.china-dope.com] 
[http://www.cn-Satellite-tv.com 卫星电视] 
[http://www.cn-Satellite-tv.com http://www.cn-Satellite-tv.com]
[http://www.66logistics.com 物流] 
[http://www.66logistics.com http://www.66logistics.com] 
[http://www.168Education.com 远程教育]
[http://www.168Education.com http://www.168Education.com]
[http://www.cn-exhibition.com 展览]
[http://www.cn-exhibition.com http://www.cn-exhibition.com] 
[http://www.66machine.com 包装机械] 
[http://www.66machine.com http://www.66machine.com] 
[http://www.66packing.com 包装设计]
[http://www.66packing.com http://www.66packing.com]
[http://www.88fiber.com 玻璃钢] 
[http://www.88fiber.com http://www.88fiber.com] 
[http://www.66ceramic.com 瓷砖]
[http://www.66ceramic.com http://www.66ceramic.com] 
[http://www.66floor.com 地板] 
[http://www.66floor.com http://www.66floor.com] 
[http://www.66battery.com 电池]
[http://www.66battery.com http://www.66battery.com]
[http://www.66tools.com 电动工具] 
[http://www.66tools.com http://www.66tools.com]
[http://www.88telephone.com 电话] 
[http://www.88telephone.com http://www.88telephone.com]
[http://www.66cable.com 电缆]
[http://www.66cable.com http://www.66cable.com]
[http://www.appliances66.com 电器]
[http://www.appliances66.com http://www.appliances66.com]
[http://www.168wire.com 电线电缆]
[http://www.168wire.com http://www.168wire.com] 
[http://www.66supply.com 电源] 
[http://www.66supply.com http://www.66supply.com] 
[http://www.66sculpture.com 雕塑]
[http://www.66sculpture.com http://www.66sculpture.com] 
[http://www.earphone168.com 耳机]
[http://www.earphone168.com http://www.earphone168.com] 
[http://www.computer666.com 二手电脑] 
[http://www.computer666.com http://www.computer666.com]
[http://www.house222.com 二手房] 
[http://www.house222.com http://www.house222.com]
[http://www.cn-dynamotor.com 发电机]
[http://www.cn-dynamotor.com http://www.cn-dynamotor.com]
[http://www.door168.com 防盗门] 
[http://www.door168.com http://www.door168.com]
[http://www.textile88.com 纺织] 
[http://www.textile88.com http://www.textile88.com]
[http://www.ticket88.com 机票]
[http://www.ticket88.com http://www.ticket88.com] 
[http://www.copy168.com 复印机] 
[http://www.copy168.com http://www.copy168.com] 
[http://www.888steel.com 钢铁]
[http://www.888steel.com http://www.888steel.com]
[http://www.machine88.com 工程机械] 
[http://www.machine88.com http://www.machine88.com] 
[http://www.chinaad-design.com 广告设计] 
[http://www.chinaad-design.com http://www.chinaad-design.com]
[http://www.relay888.com 继电器] 
[http://www.relay888.com http://www.relay888.com] 
[http://www.jiadian666.com 家电] 
[http://www.jiadian666.com http://www.jiadian666.com] 
[http://www.551111.com 建筑设计]
[http://www.551111.com http://www.551111.com] 
[http://www.switch88.com 交换机] 
[http://www.switch88.com http://www.switch88.com]
[http://www.jieju-china.com 洁具] 
[http://www.jieju-china.com http://www.jieju-china.com]
[http://www.switch168.com 开关] 
[http://www.switch168.com http://www.switch168.com] 
[http://www.musical88.com 乐器]
[http://www.musical88.com http://www.musical88.com]
[http://www.china-wood-floor.com 木地板]
[http://www.china-wood-floor.com http://www.china-wood-floor.com]
[http://www.leather168.com 皮革] 
[http://www.leather168.com http://www.leather168.com] 
[http://www.beer-china.com 啤酒] 
[http://www.beer-china.com http://www.beer-china.com]
[http://www.cn-vcr.com 润滑油]
[http://www.cn-vcr.com http://www.cn-vcr.com] 
[http://www.china-vcr.com 摄像机] 
[http://www.china-vcr.com http://www.china-vcr.com]
[http://www.331111.com 摄像头] 
[http://www.331111.com http://www.331111.com] 
[http://www.china-digital-camera.com 数码摄像机] 
[http://www.china-digital-camera.com http://www.china-digital-camera.com]
[http://www.661111.com 塑料机械]
[http://www.661111.com http://www.661111.com]
[http://www.china-sports-kit.com 体育用品] 
[http://www.china-sports-kit.com http://www.china-sports-kit.com] 
[http://www.665555.com 网络电话] 
[http://www.665555.com http://www.665555.com] 
[http://www.663333.com 望远镜] 
[http://www.663333.com http://www.663333.com] 
[http://www.662222.com 文具] 
[http://www.662222.com http://www.662222.com] 
[http://www.885555.com 五金工具] 
[http://www.885555.com http://www.885555.com] 
[http://www.8881111.com 显示器] 
[http://www.8881111.com http://www.8881111.com]
[http://www.8887777.com 相机]
[http://www.8887777.com http://www.8887777.com]
[http://www.8886666.com 香水] 
[http://www.8886666.com http://www.8886666.com]
[http://www.8885555.com http://www.8885555.com] 
[http://www.8883333.com 仪表] 
[http://www.8883333.com http://www.8883333.com]
[http://www.8882222.com 中央空调] 
[http://www.8882222.com http://www.8882222.com]
[http://www.36788.com 珠宝] 
[http://www.36788.com http://www.36788.com] 
[http://www.26788.com 平面设计]
[http://www.26788.com http://www.26788.com] 
[http://www.sensor168.com 传感器]
[http://www.sensor168.com http://www.sensor168.com] 
[http://www.moto-cn.com 摩托车] 
[http://www.moto-cn.com http://www.moto-cn.com] 
[http://www.glass8888.com 玻璃] 
[http://www.glass8888.com http://www.glass8888.com] 
[http://www.motor2008.com 电机] 
[http://www.motor2008.com http://www.motor2008.com]
[http://www.craftwork2008.com 工艺品] 
[http://www.craftwork2008.com http://www.craftwork2008.com] 
[http://www.chem888.com 化工]
[http://www.chem888.com http://www.chem888.com] 
[http://www.cosmetics2008.com 化妆品] 
[http://www.cosmetics2008.com http://www.cosmetics2008.com]
[http://www.machine168.com 机械]
[http://www.machine168.com http://www.machine168.com]
[http://www.ac8888.com 空调]
[http://www.ac8888.com http://www.ac8888.com] 
[http://www.cn-fashion.com 时装] 
[http://www.cn-fashion.com http://www.cn-fashion.com]
[http://www.food-cn.com 食品] 
[http://www.food-cn.com http://www.food-cn.com] 
[http://www.plastic168.com 塑料]
[http://www.plastic168.com http://www.plastic168.com]
[http://www.ceramic168.com 陶瓷] 
[http://www.ceramic168.com http://www.ceramic168.com]
[http://www.toy-china.com 玩具] 
[http://www.toy-china.com http://www.toy-china.com] 
[http://www.hardware888.com 五金]
[http://www.hardware888.com http://www.hardware888.com]
[http://www.cn-press.com 印刷] 
[http://www.cn-press.com http://www.cn-press.com]
[http://www.chinaaxletree.com 轴承]
[http://www.chinaaxletree.com http://www.chinaaxletree.com]
[http://www.steel168.com 钢材]
[http://www.steel168.com http://www.steel168.com]
[http://www.china-af.com 汽车配件] 
[http://www.china-af.com http://www.china-af.com] 
[http://www.chinalatex.com 橡胶] 
[http://www.chinalatex.com http://www.chinalatex.com]
[http://www.china-transformer.com 变压器] 
[http://www.china-transformer.com http://www.china-transformer.com] 
[http://www.booking-room.com 订房] 
[http://www.booking-room.com http://www.booking-room.com] 
[http://www.tb-china.com 订票] 
[http://www.tb-china.com http://www.tb-china.com] 
[http://www.china-wp.com 水处理] 
[http://www.china-wp.com http://www.china-wp.com]
[http://www.screencn.com 显示屏] 
[http://www.screencn.com http://www.screencn.com]
[http://www.cn-present.com 礼品] 
[http://www.cn-present.com http://www.cn-present.com]
[http://www.2008travel.com 旅游]
[http://www.2008travel.com http://www.2008travel.com]
[http://www.china-am.com 汽车]
[http://www.china-am.com http://www.china-am.com]
[http://www.cn-clothing.com 服装] 
[http://www.cn-clothing.com http://www.cn-clothing.com] 
[http://www.commovie-china.com 电影] 
[http://www.commovie-china.com http://www.commovie-china.com] 
[http://www.china-cp.com 手机] 
[http://www.china-cp.com http://www.china-cp.com]
[http://www.stst-cn.com 钢结构] 
[http://www.stst-cn.com http://www.stst-cn.com] 
[http://www.coma-cn.com 建筑材料]
[http://www.coma-cn.com http://www.coma-cn.com]
[http://www.cor-admin.com 企业管理] 
[http://www.cor-admin.com http://www.cor-admin.co]
[http://www.88feedstuff.com 饲料] 
[http://www.88feedstuff.com 饲料] 
[http://www.china-dope.com 涂料]
[http://www.china-dope.com http://www.china-dope.com]
[http://www.cn-Satellite-tv.com 卫星电视] 
[http://www.cn-Satellite-tv.com http://www.cn-Satellite-tv.com]
[http://www.66packing.com 包装设计] 
[http://www.66packing.com http://www.66packing.com]
[http://www.88fiber.com 玻璃钢] 
[http://www.88fiber.com http://www.88fiber.com] 
[http://www.66ceramic.com 瓷砖] 
[http://www.66ceramic.com http://www.66ceramic.com]
[http://www.66floor.com 地板]
[http://www.66floor.com http://www.66floor.com]
[http://www.66cable.com 电缆 http://www.66cable.com电缆] 
[http://www.66cable.com http://www.66cable.com]
[http://www.168wire.com 电线电缆]
[http://www.168wire.com http://www.168wire.com] 
[http://www.66supply.com 电源] 
[http://www.66supply.com http://www.66supply.com] 
[http://www.66sculpture.com 雕塑] 
[http://www.66sculpture.com http://www.66sculpture.com] 
[http://www.551111.com 建筑设计] 
[http://www.551111.com http://www.551111.com]
[http://www.jieju-china.com 洁具]
[http://www.jieju-china.com http://www.jieju-china.com]
[http://www.switch168.com 开关] 
[http://www.switch168.com http://www.switch168.com]
[http://www.leather168.com 皮革] 
[http://www.leather168.com http://www.leather168.com]
[http://www.beer-china.com 啤酒] 
[http://www.beer-china.com http://www.beer-china.com]
[http://www.661111.com 塑料机械] 
[http://www.661111.com http://www.661111.com]
[http://www.china-transformer.com 变压器] 
[http://www.china-transformer.com http://www.china-transformer.com]
[http://www.screencn.com 显示屏] 
[http://www.screencn.com http://www.screencn.com] 
[http://www.camera-cn.com 数码相机]
[http://www.camera-cn.com http://www.camera-cn.com] 
[http://www.pre-machine.com 稳压器]
[http://www.pre-machine.com http://www.pre-machine.com]
[http://www.Invite-cn.com 招聘]
[http://www.Invite-cn.com http://www.Invite-cn.com]
[http://www.hold-screen.com 触摸屏]
[http://www.hold-screen.com http://www.hold-screen.com]
[http://www.ma-cabinet.com 机柜] 
[http://www.ma-cabinet.com http://www.ma-cabinet.com] 
[http://www.screen-cn.com 显示屏] 
[http://www.screen-cn.com http://www.screen-cn.com]
[http://www.wine-booking.com 酒店预定]
[http://www.wine-booking.com http://www.wine-booking.com] 
[http://www.molding-tool.com 模具] 
[http://www.molding-tool.com http://www.molding-tool.com] 
[http://www.movie-online123.com 在线电影] 
[http://www.movie-online123.com http://www.movie-online123.com] 
[http://www.notebook555.com 笔记本] 
[http://www.notebook555.com http://www.notebook555.com]
[http://haishun11.51.net 虚拟主机]
[http://haishun11.51.net http://haishun11.51.net] 
[http://www.management666.com 管理咨询] 
[http://www.management666.com http://www.management666.com] 
[http://www.dn-register.com 域名注册] 
[http://www.dn-register.com http://www.dn-register.com]
[http://www.ki-disease.com 肾病] 
[http://www.ki-disease.com http://www.ki-disease.com]
[http://www.freemovie-cn.com 免费电影] 
[http://www.freemovie-cn.com http://www.freemovie-cn.com]
[http://www.tumor-cn.com 肿瘤] 
[http://www.tumor-cn.com http://www.tumor-cn.com] 
[http://www.microscope-cn.com 显微镜] 
[http://www.microscope-cn.com http://www.microscope-cn.com]
[http://www.marriage666.com 婚介]
[http://www.marriage666.com http://www.marriage666.com] 
[http://www.stock-cn.com 股票] 
[http://www.stock-cn.com http://www.stock-cn.com] 
[http://www.ex-machine.com 交换机] 
[http://www.ex-machine.com http://www.ex-machine.com]
[http://www.diabetes-cn.com 糖尿病]
[http://www.diabetes-cn.com http://www.diabetes-cn.com] 
[http://www.b-mailbox.com 企业邮箱]
[http://www.b-mailbox.com http://www.b-mailbox.com]
[http://www.hardware123.com 五金] 
[http://www.hardware123.com http://www.hardware123.com]
[http://www.b-liver.com 乙肝] 
[http://www.b-liver.com http://www.b-liver.com]
[http://www.interphone555.com 对讲机]
[http://www.interphone555.com http://www.interphone555.com]
[http://www.cosmetics666.com 化妆品] 
[http://www.cosmetics666.com http://www.cosmetics666.com]
[http://www.bdi-bone.com 股骨头坏死] 
[http://www.bdi-bone.com http://www.bdi-bone.com]
[http://www.website-expansion.com 网站推广] 
[http://www.website-expansion.com http://www.website-expansion.com]
[http://www.beauty333.com 美女] 
[http://www.beauty333.com http://www.beauty333.com]
[http://www.ups123.com UPS]
[http://www.ups123.com http://www.ups123.com] 
[http://www.lcd-cn.com 液晶] 
[http://www.lcd-cn.com http://www.lcd-cn.com]
[http://www.stationery555.com 文具] 
[http://www.stationery555.com http://www.stationery555.com]
[http://www.upoisoning.com 尿毒症]
[http://www.upoisoning.com http://www.upoisoning.com]
[http://www.room-ordering.com 订房]
[http://www.room-ordering.com http://www.room-ordering.com] 
[http://www.bc-printer.com 条码打印机]
[http://www.bc-printer.com http://www.bc-printer.com]
[http://www.wine-shop001.com 酒店]
[http://www.wine-shop001.com http://www.wine-shop001.com]
[http://www.computer888.com 电脑] 
[http://www.computer888.com http://www.computer888.com]
[http://www.jewelry666.com 珠宝]
[http://www.jewelry666.com http://www.jewelry666.com]
[http://www.furniture135.com 家具] 
[http://www.furniture135.com http://www.furniture135.com] 
[http://www.cast-shadow.com 投影幕] 
[http://www.cast-shadow.com http://www.cast-shadow.com]
[http://www.dress-cn.com 服饰] 
[http://www.dress-cn.com http://www.dress-cn.com] 
[http://www.websitespace-cn.com 网站空间]
[http://www.websitespace-cn.com http://www.websitespace-cn.com] 
[http://www.tire-cn.com 轮胎]
[http://www.tire-cn.com http://www.tire-cn.com]
[http://www.shopping-cn.com http://www.shopping-cn.com] 
[http://www.shopping-cn.com 网上购物]
[http://www.packing-machine.com 包装机械] 
[http://www.packing-machine.com http://www.packing-machine.com]
[http://www.barcode555.com 条码] 
[http://www.barcode555.com http://www.barcode555.com]