==English==

{{webster}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

#One who, or that which, leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor. Especially: 
#:(a) One who goes first. 
#:(b) One having authority to direct; a chief; a commander. 
#:(c) {{music}} A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head of the first violins. 
#:(d) {{nautical}} A block of hard wood pierced with suitable holes for leading ropes in their proper places. 
#:(e) {{engineering}} {{obsolete}} The principal wheel in any kind of machinery. (G. Francis)
#:(f) A horse placed in advance of others; one of the forward pair of horses.
#::'''Quotations'''
#::* He forgot to pull in his leaders, and they gallop away with him at times. - [[Hare?]]
#:(g) A pipe for conducting rain water from a roof to a cistern or to the ground; a conductor. 
#:(h) ''(Fishing):'' A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a line of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached. 
#:(i) ''(Mining):'' A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but indicating the proximity of a better one.
#The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a leading or main editorial article.
#''(Printing)'' 
#:(a) A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face. 
#:(b) ''(plural):''. a row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents, etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number. 
#{{film}} A piece of blank film at the beginning of a movie to allow the film to be threaded in the projector.
{{rfc}}

===Synonyms===
*[[chief]]
*[[chieftain]]
*[[commander]]

===See also===
<!--Common Leader titles-->
*[[president]]
*[[king]]/[[queen]]
*[[emperor]]/[[empress]]
*[[baron]]/[[baroness]]
*[[duke]]/[[duchess]]
*[[governor]]
*[[mayor]]
*[[sergeant]]
*[[general]]

===Translations===
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[vođa]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[leider]] ''m'', [[leidster]] ''f'', [[aanvoerder]] ''m'', [[aanvoerster]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[Johtaja]] ''m''
*French: [[chef]] ''m''
*German: [[Anführer]] ''m'', [[Anführerin]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[vezető]]; [[vezér]], [[parancsnok]]; [[pártvezér]], [[vezér]]
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[dux]] ''m'',''f''
*Persian: رهبر
*Polish: [[przywódca]] ''m''
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[вођа]] ''m''
*:Latin: [[vođa]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[líder]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

[[et:Leader]]
[[it:leader]]
[[pl:leader]]
[[pt:Leader]]
[[fi:leader]]