==English==
===Etymology===
*'''Leap''': From [[Old English]] [[hlýp]]
*'''Leapt''': Probable alternate spelling of "leaped" (from "leap" and suffix -ed).

===Pronunciation===
*'''Leap''': [[Pronunciation guide|IPA]]:/li&#720;p/
*'''Leaped''': [[Pronunciation guide|IPA]]:/li&#720;pd/
*'''Leapt''': [[Pronunciation guide|IPA]]:/l&#603;pt/

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|leap||}}<br>
'''to leap''' (''simple past'' '''[[leapt]]''', ''past participle'' '''[[leapt]]''')

[[Past tense]] and [[past participle]]: '''Leapt''' or '''leaped''' with no clear rule to favour either form.  The ''-t'' form is much more common in the [[United Kingdom|UK]] than in the [[United States]].

# To [[jump]] from one [[location]] to [[another]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:* '''c. 1450''': It is grete nede a man to go bak to recouer the better his '''leep''' - anonymous, ''Merlin''.
#:* '''1600''': I, I defie thee: wert not thou next him when he leapt into the Riuer? - anonymous, ''The wisdome of Doctor Dodypoll'', Act 4.
#:* '''1783''': Th' infernal monarch rear'd his horrid head, '''Leapt''' from his throne, lest Neptune's arm should lay His dark dominions open to the day. - Hugh Blair, from the ''Illiad'' in ''Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres'' Lecture 4, page 65.
#:* '''1999''': It is better to leap into the void.  - Ai, ''Vice: New & Selected Poems'', page 78. 

====Synonyms====
*[[jump]]
*[[spring]]

====Derived terms====
*[[leapfrog]]
*[[leap year]]
*[[leaping lizards]]

===Noun===
'''leap''' (plural: [[leaps]])
#The act of leaping or jumping
#The [[distance]] traversed by a leap or jump
#A [[significant]] move forward
#:'''Quotations'''
#:* '''1969''': ''"That's one small step for man, one giant '''leap''' for mankind."'' - Neil Armstrong, as he became the first man to step on the moon; July 20, 1969.

====Derived terms====
*[[quantum leap]]

===Translations===
'''to jump'''
{{top}}
*Breton: [[lammat]], [[sailhañ]]
*Bulgarian: [[скачам]]
*Danish: [[spring]], [[springe]]
*Dutch: [[springen]], [[wippen]]
*Estonian: [[hüppama]]
*Finnish: [[hypätä]], [[loikata]]
*French: [[sauter]], [[bondir]]
*German: [[springen]], [[einen Satz machen]], [[hüpfen]]
*Greek: [[πάλλομαι]]
*Gujarati: [[કૂદવું]], [[ઠેકવું]]
*Hebrew: [[קפץ]]
*Indonesian: [[lompat]], [[loncat]], [[lompat|melompat]], [[loncat|meloncat]]
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[léim]]
*Italian: [[saltare]]
*Japanese: [[飛躍]]する ([[ひやく]]する, hiyaku-suru)
*Norwegian: [[sprang]], [[hopp]], [[hoppe]]
*Portuguese: [[saltar]]
*Romanian: [[a sări]], [[a sălta]]
*Russian: [[скакать]], [[прыгать]]
*Slovak: [[skočiť]]/[[skákať]], [[preskočiť]]/[[preskakovať]] ''(over something)''
*Spanish: [[saltar]]
*Swedish: [[hoppa]], [[springa]] (''older'')
*Tamil: [[பாய்]], [[தாவு]]
*Vietnamese: [[nhảy|nhảy (lên)]]
{{bottom}}
'''the act or result of leaping'''
{{top}}
*Breton: [[lamm]] ''m'', [[sailh]] ''m'' (1)
*Bulgarian: [[скок]] ''m'' (1)
*Dutch: [[sprong]] (2)
*Danish: [[spring]] ''n'' (1,2)
*Finnish: [[hyppy]], [[loikka]] (1,2)
*French: [[saut]] ''m'' (1,2), [[bond]] ''m'' (1,3)
*German: [[Sprung]] ''m'' (1,2)
*Gujarati: [[કૂદકો]],[[ઠેકડો]]
*Latin: [[saltus]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Macedonian: [[скок]]
*Polish: [[sus]] ''m'' (1,2)
*Portuguese: [[salto]] ''m'', [[pulo]] ''m''
*Russian: [[скачок]], [[прыжок]]
*Slovak: [[skok]]
*Spanish: [[salto]]
*Swedish: [[hopp]] ''n'' (1), [[språng]] ''n'' (1)
*Tamil: [[பாய்ச்சல்]]
*Vietnamese: [[nhảy|(sự, bước) nhảy]]
{{bottom}}

[[it:leap]]