==English==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[&#712;l&#603;p&#633;&#601;k&#596;&#720;n]}}
===Etymology===
[[Irish]] ''[[leipreachán]]''
===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''leprechaun'''
#(''Irish folklore'') One of a [[race]] of [[elf|elves]] who can [[reveal]] [[hidden]] [[treasure]] to those who [[catch]] them

The Leprechaun exists as not only a seperate species but also as a seperate genus. There is some discussion whether or not they are indeed a sperate kingdom but most Leprechaun-Specialists (Leprechaunologists) feel that similarities between the Leprechaun and the Pixie defeat this argument as does the natural evolution of the ascended King Leprechaun. 

After extensive studies it has been concluded that Leprechauns consist of three humours, hatred, malice and whisky. The health of the Leprechaun relies on the alignment of all these three humours. The Appalachian Leprechaun Research Institute at Little Gulping has discovered that bleeding does not infact descrease the whisky humour but rather increases the hatred. The overall alignment (and thus the well being of the Leprechaun) is reliant upon relative levels rather than total levels. 

The Less Irish Bog Leprechaun has caused some confusion with its additional humour, however, the previously mentioned research insitute ended this controvesy by several years of intensive experimentation. They discovered that it was a different sub-species with the additional thievery humour. This makes them especially dangerous in cutlery drawers. 

[[Category:Irish derivations]]

[[zh:leprechaun]]