{{See|lesbian}}
==English==
===Etymology===
From Latin [[Lesbius]] “Lesbian” + [[-an]]. The sense of ‘homosexual’ is a reference to [[w:Sappho|Sappho]], a famous Lesbian and lesbian poet.
 
===Proper noun===
'''Lesbian'''

# An inhabitant of [[Lesbos]]
# A [[homosexual]] woman.
 
===Adjective===
'''Lesbian'''
# Of or pertaining to the island of [[Lesbos]].
# ''(used of women)'' [[Homosexual]]. 
 
===Usage===
The senses of 'homosexual' are now not usually capitalized; see ''[[lesbian]].''  However, cf. the occasional capitalization of ''[[Gay]].''

===Quotations===
* '''[1901], 1985''' Mary MacLane in ''A Day at a Time,'' Margo Culley ed. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=AuSEUamWbu0C&pg=PA201&lpg=PA201&sig=Z9-5jaiECN2E7wfPovslRHvbbNc]
*: Except two breeds—the stupid and the narrowly feline—all women have a touch of the '''Lesbian:''' an assertion all good non-analytic creatures refute with horror, but quite true: there is always the poignant intensive personal taste, the ''flair'' of inner-sex, in the tenderest friendships of women.
* '''1984,''' Audre Lorde, ''Sister Outsider'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=GrPNpSSJrYYC&pg=PA132&lpg=PA132&sig=hfJS9AwzFIj86Ev0MSw76SJECck]
*: One woman wrote, “Because you are Black and '''Lesbian''', you seem to speak with the moral authority of suffering.” Yes, I am Black and '''Lesbian''', and what you hear in my voice is fury, not suffering.
* '''1989,''' Florence King, ''Reflections in a Jaundiced Eye'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=dUgPxKzVq9AC&pg=PA95&lpg=PA95&sig=S6zgYpw5y_WwqtsoCEvYZdb6Bds]
*: Suddenly open enrollment struck the Sapphic elite and dykes-for-the-masses were everywhere. We got the '''Lesbian''' detective, the '''Lesbian''' ghost, the '''Lesbian''' vampire, the possessed '''Lesbian''', the '''Lesbian''' next door, the '''Lesbian''' with a heart of gold, the kept '''Lesbian''', the other '''Lesbian''', the '''Lesbian''' amnesiac, the '''Lesbian''' with cancer, and just plain Butch.
[[pt:Lesbian]]