==English==
{{rfc|translations need sorting}}
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-level.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛvəl|-ɛvəl]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}
# The same height at all places; [[parallel]] to the ground.
#:''This table isn't quite '''level'''; see how this marble rolls off it?''
# At the same height as some reference; constructed as ''level with''.
#:''We tried to hang the pictures so that the bottom of the frames were '''level''' with the dark line in the wallpaper.
# Being [[unvaried]].
# Being [[sensible]].
#:''He kept a '''level''' head under stress.''

====Antonyms====
*[[unbalanced]]
*[[uneven]]
*[[tilted]]

====Derived terms====
*[[level playing field]]

====Related terms====
*[[square]]

====Translations====
*Bosnian: [[ravan]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[平實]], [[平实]]
*Dutch: [[niveau-]] (''a prefix rather than an adjective)
*French: [[niveau]] ''m/f''
*German: waagerecht ausgerichtete<!-- please check this one -->
*Italian: [[livellato]] ''m'', [[livellata]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[水平]]な
*Korean: [[수평]] (sup'yeong)
*Portuguese: [[nivelado]] ''m'', [[nivelada]] ''f''
*Russian: [[ровный]] ''m'', [[ровная]] ''f'', [[ровное]] ''n'', [[ровные]] ''pl''
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[раван]] ''m''
*:Latin: [[ravan]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[llano]] ''m'', [[llana]] ''f''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A tool for finding whether a surface is level, or for creating a horizontal or vertical line of reference.
<!--# A tool used to test if a plane is [[perpendicular]] to the ground.-->
#: ''Hand me the '''level''' so I can tell if this is correctly installed.''
# A distance [[relative]] to a given reference elevation.
#: ''By the end of the day, we'd dug down to the '''level''' of the old basement floor.''
# [[degree|Degree]] or [[amount]].
#: ''The sound '''level''' is much too high; this hurts my ears.''
#: ''We've reached a new '''level''' of success.''
# {{cattag|gaming}} One of several [[discrete]] segments of a game generally [[increasing]] in [[difficulty]]. Often numbered. Often, each level occupies different physical space (although levels are not always vertically stacked).
#:''It took me weeks to get to '''level''' seven.''
#:''Watch out for the next '''level'''; the bad guys there are really overpowered.''
# {{cattag|gaming}} A periodic [[progression]] of [[integer]] values that quantify a [[character]]’s [[experience]] and [[power]].
#:''My half-orc barbarian reached fifth '''level''' before he was squashed by a troll.''
# A [[floor]] of a multi-[[storey]] building.
#:''Take the elevator and get off at the promenade '''level'''.''

====Derived terms====
*[[bonus level]]
*[[on the level]]
*[[spirit level]]
*[[split level]]

====Translations====
*Bosnian: [[libela]] ''f'' (1), [[nivo]] ''m'' (2, 3, 4), [[stepen]] ''m'' (2, 3, 4)
*Chinese: [[水平]]
*Dutch: [[niveau]] ''n''
*French: [[niveau]] ''m''
*German: [[Niveau]] ''n''
*Greek: [[επίπεδο]] ''n''
*Italian: [[livello]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[水準]], [[レベル]]
*Korean: [[수준]] (sujun)
*Norwegian: [[vater]] ''n'' (1) [[nivå]] ''n'' (2,3,4)
*Portuguese: [[nível]] ''m''
*Russian: [[уровень]] ''m'' (uroven')
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[либела]] ''f'' (1), [[ниво]] ''m'' (2, 3, 4), [[степен]] ''m'' (2, 3, 4)
*:Latin: [[libela]] ''f'' (1), [[nivo]] ''m'' (2, 3, 4), [[stepen]] ''m'' (2, 3, 4)
*Spanish: [[nivel]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[vattenpass]] (1), [[nivå]] (2,3,4)

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}
;or
{{en-verb|levell|ing}}

# To [[adjust]] so as to make level.
#: ''You can '''level''' the table by turning the pads that screw into the feet.''
# To [[destroy]] by reducing to ground level; to [[raze]].
#: ''The hurricane '''leveled''' the forest.''
# {{cattag|gaming}} To progress to the next level.
#: ''I '''levelled '''after defeating the dragon.''

====Derived terms====
*[[level out]]
*[[level up]]
*[[to the next level]]

[[Category:English palindromes]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:level]]
[[gl:level]]
[[io:level]]
[[it:level]]
[[hu:level]]
[[pt:level]]
[[ru:level]]
[[fi:level]]
[[sv:level]]
[[vi:level]]
[[zh:level]]