:''See also:'' [[Liberal]]
==English==

===Adjective===

# Generous in quantity
#: ''Add a '''liberal''' sprinkling of salt.''
# A political description sometimes used without regard to true meaning, as a [[pejorative]]
# Based on optimistic assumptions.
#: ''At a '''liberal''' estimate, growth could exceed 5% next year.''
# Favoring social freedom; [[permissive]]
#: ''Her parents had '''liberal''' ideas about child-rearing.''
# Favoring ideas that treat all people with equal justice regardless of educational, financial, sexual or racial status. 
# (''US'') Supposedly Opposing [[conservative]] positions, particularly those of [[social conservative]]s.
# (''UK'') Pertaining to the [[Liberal Democrat]]s.
# Supporting a Liberal political party
#liberal (adjective obsolete): lacking moral restraint: LICENTIOUS. Source; Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, eleventh edition, page 716.
#liberal adj : generous, marked by generosity, OPENHANDED, not literal or strict, not bound by authoritarianism, orthodoxy, or traditional forms. Source; Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, eleventh edition, page 716.


===Related Terms===
*[[liberty]]
*[[libertarian]]
*[[liberal arts]]

===See Also===
*[[conservative]]

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[liberaal]], [[liberale]]
*Finnish: [[liberaali]]
*[[French]]: libéral, [[libérale]]
*[[German]]: liberal
*[[Indonesian]]: liberal, [[bebas]] (?)
*[[Italian]]: [[liberale]] (4, 8)
*[[Japanese]]: [[リベラル]] (riberaru), [[自由]] ([[じゆう]], jiyū) (?)
*[[Polish]]: [[liberalny]]

===Noun===
'''liberal'''

# One with liberal views.
# (''US'') One opposing the views of a [[social conservative]] and favoring socially responsible taxes.  Sometimes used pejoratively in political campaigns.
# (Also 'classical liberal', akin to [[libertarian]]) A person who favors individual voting rights, human and civil rights, individual gun-rights, [[laissez-faire]] markets, and the gold standard.

[[io:Liberal]]
[[it:liberal]]
[[fi:Liberal]]