==English==
===Etymology===
From French ''[[libertaire]]'' ("[[anarchist]]"), formed from ''[[liberté]]'' ("freedom", from Latin ''libertas'') and the suffix ''-aire'' (from Latin ''-arius'').

N.B. The French term was coined when anarchist publications were banned by law in France.  The anarchists invented the synonym ''libertaire'' in order to skirt the ban.

===Pronunciation===
* IPA: [[Received Pronunciation|RP]] /ˌlɪbəˈtɛəɹjən/

===Noun===
# A believer in libertarian socialism ([[anarchism]]); one who advocates social freedom as the highest political goal, and therefore aims at the overthrow of all unjustified systems of power (corporate, governmental and other) and create a type of [[socialist]] order in which the State is not necessary and thus abolished.  Also [[anarchist]], [[anarch]], libertarian socialist.
# In a loose sense, someone advocating freedom either generally or on a specific issue, e.g. "civil libertarian" (in favour of civil liberties).
# In philosophy, a believer in thinking beings' freedom to choose their own destiny, i.e. a believer in [[Free Will]] as opposed to those who believe the future is predetermined.
# (Mainly in American English and the US political scene,) a believer in a political doctrine that emphasises individual freedom, and thus stresses right-wing, neo-liberal policies concerning  the economy (the free market) and left-wing, liberal policies concerning the individual (minimal curbs to freedom).
# Capitalised: A member of a political party or movement that uses the term "Libertarian" in its name (and is therefore likely to support policies that are libertarian in sense number 4).

===Adjective===
# Relating to the beliefs of libertarians as defined above.

===See also===
* [[w:Libertarianism]]
* [[w:Anarchism]]