==English==

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[liccian]]''

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪk|-ɪk]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To stroke with the tongue.
#: ''The cat licked its fur.''
# {{colloquial}} To defeat decisively, particularly in a fight.
#: ''My dad can lick your dad.''
# {{colloquial}} To overcome.
#: ''I think I can lick this.''
# {{vulgarslang}} To perform [[cunnilingus]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[lëpin]]
*Catalan: [[llepar]]
*Croatian: [[lizati]]
*Dutch: [[likken]]
*Esperanto: [[leki]]
*French: [[lécher]]
*German: [[lecken]]
*Greek: [[γλεώσει]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[nyal]]
*Indonesian: [[jilat]]
*Italian: [[leccare]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[alîstin]]
*Polish: [[lizać]]
*Russian: [[вылизать]]
*Spanish: [[lamer]]
*Telugu: [[నాకు]] (naaku)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of licking.
#: ''The cat gave its fur a lick.''
# The amount of some substance obtainable with a single lick.
#: ''Give me a lick of ice cream.''
# A place where animals lick minerals from the ground.
#: ''The birds gathered at the clay lick.''
# {{colloquial}} A stroke or blow.
#: ''Hit that wedge a good lick with the sledgehammer.''
# {{colloquial}} A bit.
#: ''You don't have a lick of sense.''
#: ''I didn't do a lick of work today.''
# {{music}} A short motif.
#: ''There are some really good blues licks in this solo.''

===Related terms===
*[[ass-licker]]
*[[cow lick]]
*[[good lick]]
*[[lick one's chops]]
*[[lick one's wounds]]
*[[lick up]]
*[[licked]]
*[[lickety split]]

[[fr:lick]]
[[io:lick]]
[[it:lick]]
[[hu:lick]]
[[pl:lick]]
[[ta:lick]]
[[tr:lick]]
[[zh:lick]]