===[[noun]]===
A legal contract between two parties; the [[assured]] person pays a fixed sum of money (a [[premium]]) on a regular basis throughout the term of the contract which is usually between ten and thirty years) to the [[assurer]]. Should the individual die during this term, the premium payments will stop and the assurer will pay a fixed lump sum to the [[assured]]'s estate (in the case of death) or the assured him-/herself (in the case of disability). At this time the policy is said to have [[matured]].

Premiums are usually paid [[monthly]], but often [[annually]] instead, or rarely [[weekly]], [[quarterly]], or [[half-yearly]]. The premiums are paid in advance.

Some policies also mature if the assured becomes permanently incapacitated due to an accident or illness.

If the contract term expires and the assured is still alive, the assurer pockets all the money and the assured receives nothing back. What the assured pays for then is just the peace of mind, that should anything happen during the term of the contract, there will be enough money coming into the estate to settle all the person's debts (provided of course that the assured sum is higher than the sum of all debts at any given moment).

If the assured stops paying premiums, the policy is suspended. It is a legal minefield to decide what would happen if anything untoward should happend to the assured while his/her life assurance policy is in such a state of supension. To ressurect such a policy, the assurer will have to pay all the outstanding premiums (plus a penalty fee). However after a certain period (usually a year) a suspended policy lapses and is permanently cancelled.

The most popular contract term is twenty five years and coincides with the most popular [[mortgage]] repayment term.

The "assured" can also be a couple (usually [[married]] but more recently also just two people living together, especially if they bought a property together). In this case the contract ends on the first death or disability of either of the persons named on the policy.

===[[Translation]]s===
*[[Dutch]]: [[levensverzekering]] ''f''
*[[German]]: [[Lebensversicherung]] ''f''
*[[Hebrew]]: [[בטחון חי]] ''m''
*[[Indonesian]]: [[asuransi]] [[jiwa]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[生命保険]] (せいめいほけん, seimei-hoken)