==English==

===Etymology 1===
Unknown.

====Noun====
'''lighter'''

# A small, reusable, handheld device for creating fire.
#* ''Cigarette in mouth, he clutched his pockets in search of a '''lighter'''.''

=====Usage note=====

In modern English, this almost exclusively refers to a device for [[ignite|igniting]] a [[cigarette]] or other [[smokable]] [[drug|drugs]].

=====Translations=====
*Albanian: [[çakmak]] ''m''
*Finnish: [[sytytin]], [[sytkäri]] ''slang''
*German: [[Feuerzeug]] ''n''
*Greek: [[αναπτήρας]] (anaptḗras) ''m''
*Irish: [[lastóir]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[ライター]] (raitā)
*Portuguese: [[acendedor]] ''m'', [[isqueiro]] ''m''

====Adjective====
# less dark; brighter.
#* ''I prefer a '''lighter''' shade of pink.''

===Etymology 2===
unknown

====Adjective====
'''lighter'''

# weighing less
#* ''What happened?  You look 10 lbs. '''lighter'''!''
# of less force
#* ''I wish I'd thrown a '''lighter''' punch; he's out cold.''
# of less forcefulness or severity
#* ''I prefer my old barber.  He had a '''lighter''' touch.''
#* ''His punishment was lighter than he had expected.''
# less serious
#* ''This film is '''lighter''' than his last one.  I only cried twice.''
# less easily disturbed
#* ''Be careful.  He's a '''lighter''' sleeper than you'd think.''
# lesser in quantity
#* ''The snowfall is '''lighter''' this year.''

====Noun====
'''lighter'''

# A flat-bottomed boat for carrying heavy loads across short distances (especially for canals or for loading or unloading larger boats).

[[it:lighter]]