==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/lɪst/}}
*{{SAMPA|/lIst/}}
*{{audio|en-us-list.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪst|-ɪst]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[liste#Old English|līste]]''.  Cognate with Dutch ''[[lijst]]'', German ''[[Leiste]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A [[strip]] of [[fabric]], especially from the edge of a piece of [[cloth]].
# Material used for [[cloth]] [[selvage]].
#:*'''1893''': The charwomen are in the habit of taking off their boots at the commissionaire's office, and putting on '''list''' slippers. — Arthur Conan Doyle, ‘The Naval Treaty’ (Norton 2005, p.681)
# (''in plural'') The palisades or barriers used to fence off a space for [[tilting]] or [[jousting]] tournaments.
#:*'''1819''': William de Wyvil, and Stephen de Martival, [...] armed at all points, rode up and down the '''lists''' to enforce and preserve good order among the spectators. — Walter Scott, ''Ivanhoe''

===Etymology 2===
From Old (and modern) French ''[[liste]]'' ‘strip (of paper)’, probably cognate with Etymology 1, from Germanic.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A register or roll of paper consisting of an enumeration or [[compilation]] of a set of possible [[item]]s.
# {{computing}} A codified representation of a list, used to store data or in processing.
# {{complang}} ([[LISP]]) a [[data structure]] made up of [[cons pair|cons pairs]] the [[cdr]] of which contains either another '''list''' or [[nil]].

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*German: [[Liste]] ''f''
*French: [[liste]]
*[[Limburgish]]: [[lies]]
*Japanese: [[リスト]] (risuto)
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[liste]] ''mf''
*Slovak: [[zoznam]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[seznam]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[lista]] ''f''
*Swahili: [[orodha]] ''(noun 9/10)''
*Swedish: [[lista]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To create or recite a list.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Japanese: [[リストする]] (risuto suru)
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[liste]]
*Swedish: [[hacer]] [[una]] [[lista]], [[leer]] [[una]] [[lista]]    
*Swahili: [[kuorodesha]]
*Swedish: [[lista]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Origin unknown.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# (''Nautical'') a tilting or careening manoeuvre, which causes the ship to roll.  Usually used to describe tilting not under a ship's own power.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# (''Nautical'') to carry out such a manoeuvre

----

==Bosnian==

===Noun===
'''list''' {{m}} {{s}} ({{p}}: '''listovi''' or '''lišće''')
#[[leaf]] (''part of a plant'')
#[[page]] (''in a book'')
*''Note:  The plural '''lišće''' applies only to '''leaves''' (parts of a plant) and is a collective noun.''
====Synonyms====
*[[liska#Bosnian|liska]]
[[Category:Bosnian nouns]]

----

==Croatian==

===Noun===
'''list'''

# [[leaf]]

[[Category:Croatian nouns]]

----

==Czech==

===Noun===
'''list'''
#a [[leaf]]
# [[letter]]; a written message 

[[Category:Czech nouns]]

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /lɪst/
===Noun===
'''list''' {{f}}
#a [[cunning]] plan

----

==German==

See [[List]]

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
'''list''' {{f}}
#[[art]]
===See also===
* [[tónlist]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==Polish==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/list/}}

===Noun===
'''list''' {{m}} (plural '''[[listy]]''', ''locative singular'' '''[[liście]]''')

# [[letter]]

[[Category:Polish nouns]]

----

==Serbian==

===Noun===
'''list''' {{m}} {{s}} ({{p}}: '''listovi''' or '''lišće''')
#[[leaf]] (''part of a plant'')
#[[page]] (''in a book'')
*''Note:  The plural '''lišće''' applies only to '''leaves''' (parts of a plant) and is a collective noun.''
====Cyrillic spelling====
*[[лист#Serbian|лист]]
====Synonyms====
*[[liska#Serbian|liska]]
[[Category:Serbian nouns]]

----

==Slovak==

===Noun===
'''list'''
#[[letter]]; a written message

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[de:list]]
[[el:list]]
[[fa:list]]
[[fr:list]]
[[hr:list]]
[[io:list]]
[[id:list]]
[[it:list]]
[[kk:list]]
[[hu:list]]
[[no:list]]
[[pl:list]]
[[pt:list]]
[[ru:list]]
[[sl:list]]
[[fi:list]]
[[ta:list]]
[[vi:list]]
[[zh:list]]