==Danish==
===Etymology===
Old Norse ''[[líf]]''
===Noun===
'''liv'''

# [[life]]

[[Category:Danish nouns]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
{{sv-noun-n-zero}}
'''liv'''  {{n}}

#[[life]], [[lifetime]], [[existence]]
#:'''1916''':[[w:Edith Södergran|Edith Södergran]] [http://runeberg.org/sodrgran/01_61.html ''Livet'']- '''Livet''' är att handskas vårdslöst med sin egen lycka och att stöta bort det enda ögonblicket, ...
#::"Life is to deal carelessly with your own happiness and push away the only moment,..."
#:'''1933''':[[w:Selma Lagerlöf|Selma Lagerlöf]] [http://runeberg.org/morbacka/k3.html ''Mårbackablomster:Livet''] - '''Livets''' gnista flyger från en till en annan. Man tändes, flammar och slocknar. Det är '''livet'''.
#::"The spark of life flows from one to another. You are set afire, burn and die out. That is life.
#[[living being]], [[creature]]
#:'''1910''':[[w:Ellen Key|Ellen Key]] - Mödrarna, för vilka de unga '''liven''' äro de dyrbaraste, måste använda hela sitt inflytande mot kriget.
#::"The mothers for whom the young ones are the most precious must use all of their influence against the war."
#:'''1924''':[[w:Hjalmar Bergman|Hjalmar Bergman]] [http://runeberg.org/ingeborg/2_7.html ''Chefen Fru Ingeborg''] - All världen - dvs. de sju, åtta '''liven''' på Sommarro - skulle se att fästmannen inte hade någon bestämmanderätt! 
#::"All the world, i.e., the seven or eight people at Sommaro, would make sure that the fiance did not get to decide anything."
#[[body]], [[physical being]]
#[[waist]]
#:'''1894''':[[w:Gustaf Fröding|Gustaf Fröding]] [http://runeberg.org/gfnyadik/08.html ''Mordet i Vindfallsängen''] - Och sist satt han däst och höll jäntor om '''liven''' med ruset i skallen...
#::"Finally he sat there bloated and drunk with his arm around the waist of girls..."
#:'''1897''':[[w:Verner von Heidenstam|Verner von Heidenstam]] [http://runeberg.org/karolin/09.html ''Karolinerna''] - Likväl tordes jag icke spänna huggvärjan från '''livet''', ty jag kunde ej alldeles slå bort alla misstankar på ett försåt.
#::"Nevertheless, I dared not unbuckle my rapier from my waist, since I could not entirely erase all suspicion of ambush."
#[[bodice]]
#:'''1926''':[http://runeberg.org/stf/1926/0120.html ''Svenska Turistföreningens årsbok - Dalarna''] - '''Liven''' äro i regel röda, ibland med en obetydlig randning.
#::"The bodices are usually red, sometimes with insignificant stripes."
#:'''1897''':[[w:Verner von Heidenstam|Verner von Heidenstam]] [http://runeberg.org/karolin/09.html ''Karolinerna''] - Nästan ögonblickligen blev porten öppnad av en storväxt och ståtlig tjänsteflicka med en bred ljus hårfläta på ryggen och en mängd pinglande silversmycken på den svarta hättan och det röda och gröna '''livet'''.
#:: "Almost immediately the door was opened by a large and splendid servant girl with a thick light braid down her back and many tingling silver trinkets on her black bonnet and on the red and green bodice."
#[[noise]], [[row]]
#:För inte ett sånt liv!
#::"Don't be so noisy!"

====Related terms====
*[[levande]]
*[[leva]]

[[category:Swedish nouns]]

[[fr:liv]]
[[hy:liv]]
[[io:liv]]
[[ku:liv]]
[[pl:liv]]
[[ro:liv]]
[[fi:liv]]
[[vi:liv]]