==English==
===Homophones===
*[[lode]], [[low]]ed

===Noun===
'''load''' (''plural'' '''loads''')

#A [[burden]]; a weight to be carried.
#A certain number of articles that can be transported or processed at one time.
#(''in plural'' '''loads''') (''colloquial'') A large number or amount.
#:''I got loads of presents for my birthday!''
#A unit of measure, often equivalent to the capacity of a waggon, but later becoming more specific measures of weight.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1866''': If this load equals it's modern representative, it contains 18 cwt. of dry, 19 of new hay. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 1, p. 172.

====Translations====

'''burden'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[kuorma]]
*French: [[charge#French|charge]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Polish: [[ciężar]] ''m'', [[obciążenie]] ''n''
|}
|}

'''number of articles that can be transported or processed at one time'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[kuorma]], [[lasti]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Polish: [[ładunek]] ''m'', [[ładowność]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''in plural: colloquial: a large number or amount'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: des [[tas]] ('''of''': de) ''m plural''
*Italian: un [[sacco]] ('''of''': di) ''m singular''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Transitive verb===
'''to load''' (loads, loaded, loading)

#To put a load on (something).
#To fill (a firearm or artillery) with [[munition]].
#(''computing'') To read ([[data]] or a [[program]]) from a storage medium into computer memory.

====Translations====

'''put a load on'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[ladata]], [[lastata]]
*French: [[charger#French|charger]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Polish: [[ładować]], [[obciążać]]
|}
|}

'''fill a firearm or artillery'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[ladata]]
*French: [[charger#French|charger]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Polish: [[załadować]]
|}
|}

'''computing: read data or a program into memory'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[ladata]]
*French: [[charger#French|charger]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Polish: [[wgrać]], [[załadować]]
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[load-bearing]]
*[[loaded]]
*[[loading]]
*[[loadsamoney]]
*[[payload]]

[[it:load]]