==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*'''[[load bearing]]'''

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

#(''mainly construction and civil engineering'') [[Able]] to [[support]] a [[load]].
#*'''1908:''' Frederick E. Turneaure, Editor-in-Chief, ''Cyclopedia of Civil Engineering''
#*:The different forms of partitions that are not '''load-bearing''' will be considered under "Fireproofing."
#*'''1958:''' Australian Atomic Energy Commission, ''Australian Atomic Energy Symposium, 1958: Proceedings of a Symposium on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Australia''
#*:The reactor units each called for a circular pit over 300ft. in diameter, excavated to a depth of 20ft. to reach a suitable '''load-bearing''' stratum.
#*'''1993:''' L. R. Marple, H. Bouadi, ''Effects of Impact Angle and Thickness on Graphite/Epoxy Laminated Plates'', read in ''Proceedings of the American Society for Composites Eighth Technical Conference: Composite Materials, Mechanics and Processing''
#*:As these materials gain a greater usage, and are utilised in larger and '''more load-bearing''' structural components, all possible structural behaviours must be completely characterised.
#*'''1998:''' Hooshang Bolooki, ''Clinical Applications of the Intra-Aortic Balloon Pump''
#*:Therefore, in patients who receive long-term balloon pumping without a '''more load-bearing''' assist device than IABP, the chance of survival will be small.
#*'''2001:''' Akram F. Khater, ''Inventing Home: Emigration, Gender, and the Middle Class in Lebanon, 1870-1920''
#*:Alternating sandstone and limestone (the limestone being used in façades exposed to the winter rains or in '''more load-bearing''' areas) created a most pleasing decorative effect.
#*'''2004:''' Peter Dickinson, Nigel Thornton, ''Cracking and Building Movement''
#*:...not only with the diagnosis in mind but also with the knowledge of where the cracks may indicate the damage may be and in the knowledge of which walls are the '''more load-bearing'''.
#*'''2004:''' G. R. Evans, ''The First Christian Theologians, an Introduction to Theology in the Early Church''
#*: It was in baptism (and in consequence in penance) that the theologically '''most load-bearing''' aspects of the liturgical life of the Church were concentrated.
#*'''2004:''' European Patent Office, ''Corrected European Patent Application EP 1 393 891 A9''
#*:Despite the foaming and thus the lowest elasticity modulus, the middle layer is the stiffest and the '''most load-bearing''' structure.
#*'''2006:''' William Perkins Spence, ''The Home Carpenter & Woodworker's Repair Manual''
#*:Anything with greater stress should go to a '''load-bearing''' interior wall.

===Noun===
'''load-bearing''' {{italbrac|uncountable}}

# The [[carry]]ing of [[load]]s.
#*'''1904:''' Morley Roberts, ''A Tramp's Note-book''
#*:The porters, who stand in knots with cords upon their shoulders, bear huge loads; a characteristic of the place is this '''load-bearing''' and the size of the burdens.
#*'''1955:''' National Research Council (U.S.) Building Research Institute, ''Modular Measure: The Edited Papers and Discussions of a Research Correlation Conference Entitled Modular Coordination: Its Value in Contemporary Building, Conducted by the Building Research Institute''
#*:Since we do not need walls for '''load-bearing''', the storage walls do not have to have any special thickness.
#*'''2006:''' David Lowe, ''Surgical Pathology Revision''
#*:A common degenerative joint disease that involves synovial joints only with recurrent or abnormal '''load-bearing''' on normal cartilage or normal '''load-bearing''' on weakened cartilage, or both.