Line of Duty Death
What you and your department need to know

By Ken Chudy 
Local 370, Muskegon
MPFFU Health and Safety Committee
Except for 2001, line of duty deaths in the fire service has averaged over 100 members a year despite the health and safety precautions mandated by various national and state standards. Many fire departments have been fortunate not to have a Line of Duty Death (LODD), yet there still exists the possibility each day and at any time. This then begs the question, are you and your department prepared in case the worst of all days happens?

The definition of LODD is a death caused by “any action that the public safety officer is authorized or obligated to perform by: law, rule, regulation, or condition of employment.” In November 2003, the US Congress added language to include members who die of a heart attack or stroke while on duty and was subsequently signed into law on December 15, 2003 by President Bush as part of the Hometown Heroes Survivors Benefits Act. If fire suppression, law enforcement, rescue, or ambulance service is not the primary function, then to be covered by this act the person must be engaged in their authorized fire suppression, law enforcement, rescue, or ambulance duties when the fatal or disabling injury occurs. The term disability is understood to mean that a person must be receiving maximum disability compensation from their own jurisdiction and be in a comatose or vegetative state or a quadriplegic.

Those that are eligible include: firefighters, law enforcement officers, and volunteers if they are recognized or designated members of a legally organized department. Exclusions from receiving benefits consist of intentional misconduct, voluntary intoxicated or drug use, gross negligence, substantial contributing factors by a claimant, and military personnel. Also excluded from benefits are members who die from stress, strain, occupational illness, or chronic disease unless there is a traumatic injury and medical proof.

The Public Safety Officers Benefit (PSOB) that was enacted in 1976, is designed to assist families, one time, for members that die or became permanently disabled from injuries sustained in the line of duty. The monetary amount has changed from the original $50,000 to $267,494 and is adjusted annually. It also includes the Public Safety Officers Educational Assistance program for spouses and children and is designed to aid families of fallen firefighters with schooling There are several responsibilities each department or members must take to help ensure all benefits are received by the family of a fallen brother or sister.

First, follow the scout motto and be prepared. Without preparation, benefits can be lost because a process was missed or a procedure not ordered. Have a manual set aside that is accessible to all that includes step by step procedures if the unthinkable happens. Inform all members of the manual through a departmental training session on a LODD. The information should also be passed onto family members so they too have an awareness of the program.

Second. a Firefighter Serious Casualty check list should be made for on-scene responsibilities and available to incident commanders on the scene. There are several currently being used throughout the nation and are available on the Internet. A good example of a check list comes from the State of New Jersey’s Division of Fire Safety. Adapting their guidelines to your local departmentt will provide a detailed check list of responsibilities for both on scene and off scene personnel.

Third, FEMA and the United States Fire Administration provide, for free, a Firefighter Autopsy Protocol Manual. This manual supplies information on equipment, health, toxicology, and gives a step by step autopsy protocol that should be followed by the medical examiner to help determine the analysis of death and eligibility. Some medical examiners may not be aware of the specifics needed for a LODD and having this manual would increase their knowledge.

Finally, someone has to begin the process of initiating a claim. The National Fallen Fire Fighters Foundation has a manual entitled “Taking Care of Our Own, a Resource Guide.” This free manual not only tells what steps need to be taken in initiating a claim, but also ways to help a family through the funeral. This manual compliments the IAFF information given to locals concerning a LODD in their detailed guide book.

Experiencing the death of one of our own is probably the hardest moment any department or member will ever encounter. Preparing for this experience will not lessen the pain, but will help those in need.

To order manuals from the above references, contact:
• The National Fallen Fire Fighters Foundation at firehero.org.
• Firefighter Autopsy Protocol at usfa.fema.gov/applications/publications. New Jersey firefighter line of duty death and serious injury guidelines at nj.gov/dca/dfs/booklet8.pdf.