==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*'''[[Lolicon]]'''
*'''[[loli-con]]'''
*'''[[lolikon]]'''
*'''[[loricon]]'''
*'''[[lorikon]]'''
*'''[[roricon]]'''
*'''[[rorikon]]'''

===Etymology===
''[[Lolita]]'' + ''[[complex]]''; ending in ''con'' rather than ''com'' due to the phonology of Japanese.

===Noun===
{{Wikipedia}} 
'''lolicon''' (''plural:'' '''[[lolicons]]''')

# {{uncountable}} The sexual [[attraction]] to young [[girl]]s.
#*'''1995''' April 4, Joseph L. Petrow, “Marmalade Boy - Just Plain Screwed Up!!”, <tt>rec.arts.anime</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*: I got many flames for denoucing Nacchan's '''Lolicon''' ways a few months back!
#*'''2004''' November, Patrick Macias and Tomohiro Machiyama, ''Cruising The Anime City: An Otaku Guide to Neo Tokyo'', page 48, Stone Bridge Press
#*:''Innocence''’s story—about female sex androids that kill their owners—is possible only in a '''Lolicon''' country like Japan. The androids are modeled after little girls
#*'''2005''', “Bokusatsu Tenshi Dokuro-chan (TV)”, ''Anime News Network.com'' [http://www.animenewsnetwork.com/encyclopedia/anime.php?id=5094]
#*:Sakura is destined to create the technology for eternal life, which (due to Sakura's '''lolicon''' tendencies) freezes all women's aging once they turn twelve.
# {{countable}} An individual fixated on young girls, particularly those below the [[age of consent]]
#*'''1992''' March 10, “Gian_Uberto Lauri 228495” of Italy, “Char Counterattack (SPOILER WARNING!!!!)”, <tt>rec.arts.anime </tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:Lala seemed TOO YOUNG to me, and Char is said to be '''Loli-con''' in the movie, so he has some kind of problem
#*'''1993''', Cynthia Ma (translator), ''Yagami-kun’s Family Affairs'' (八神くんの家庭の事情), Volume 1, Chapter 1 [http://groups.google.com/group/rec.arts.manga/browse_thread/thread/1e1be53228c500a9]
#*:Students: Aaah, you blushed!  This guy is "''''Lolicon'''"!
#*'''2006''' April 17, Erica Friedman, “Yume Tsukai Anime”, ''okazu'', at <tt>okazu.blogspot.com</tt> [http://okazu.blogspot.com/2006/04/yume-tsukai-anime.html]
#*:I almost feel bad for the '''lolicons''' who do tune in looking for all the same stuff as in the manga
#*'''2006''' April 30, Kotera Rikan, “Lolicon Culture in Crisis”, ''Idolizing St.Anna''<!--no space after period-->, at <tt>santoslove.exblog.jp</tt> [http://santoslove.exblog.jp/4528773]
#*:And thanks to this pressure from foreign western countries (this it the only way to change this island country), this freedom of '''lolicons''' was limited little by little.
#*'''2006''' May 2, “radda343” of San Antonio (USA), “Lolis - Not just for Pedos Anymore”, ''Ach, Mein Bloggen!'', at <tt>radda343.blogspot.com</tt> [http://radda343.blogspot.com/2006/05/lolis-not-just-for-pedos-anymore.html]
#*:The Shana-type is the favored type for '''lolicons''' (note that I am NOT a '''lolicon''') and is therefore the only type that is officially classified as loli.
# {{uncountable}} [[erotic|Erotic]] art depicting females below the [[age of consent]].
#*'''1989''' September 23, Mark Crispin, “bringing stuff into the US from Japan”, <tt>soc.culture.japan</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:If you are into bishojo, '''loli-con''', or bishonen materials, be advised that customs *does* frown on what might be considered pornography.
#*'''1993''' March 27, Rafael Brown, “Anime Potrayal of Japanese Women”, <tt>rec.arts.anime</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:the whole gamut of '''lolicon''' and girls-with-guns genres
#*'''2003''' August 13, “heartlilly” of Pittsburgh (USA), “Otakon squeeing...”, ''anahita'', at <tt>heartlilly.livejournal.com</tt> [http://heartlilly.livejournal.com/254367.html]
#*:Momi-chan can easily be mistaken for a girl and they figured this was a '''lolicon''' title
#* '''2005''' March, Matthew Skala, “Edmonton man arrested over manga import”, personal website, at <tt>ansuz.sooke.bc.ca</tt> [http://ansuz.sooke.bc.ca/lawpoli/free-expression/edmonton-lolicon-arrest.php]
#*: ''...''what would most correctly be described as hard-core '''lolicon''' manga - that is, fictional graphic novels including drawings of children in sexual poses and activity.
#*'''2006''' June 2, Clare “sugahcat” of the UK, “Rambles and fanart”, ''when there's nothing left to say'', at <tt>sugahcat.livejournal.com</tt> [http://sugahcat.livejournal.com/61753.html]
#*:And then today some creep''...''came in asking for some hentai (and by the looks of it, '''lolicon''' also) book or other that we can't get in.
# {{cattag|countable|rare}} An [[underage]] female [[character]] of erotic art.

====Synonyms====
*[[loli]]

===See also===
*[[shotacon]]

===References===
*[http://amr.nextstudio.net/html/gloss_lolicon.html Anime Meta-Review Glossary]
*''Porn Studies'', page 101, Linda Williams (editor), Duke University Press, 2004 July
*Chambers's Encyclopædia: A Dictionary of Universal Knowledge for the People

[[Category:Pedophilia]]