==English==

===Noun===
'''loophole''' (plural: '''loopholes''')

# A [[method]] of [[escape]], especially an [[ambiguity]] or [[exception]] in a rule that can be [[exploit]]ed in order to avoid its effect.
#*'''1839,''' Charles Dickens, ''Oliver Twist''
#*:Coupling the poor girl's intelligence with my previous knowledge, and the result of our good friend's inquiries on the spot, I left him no '''loophole''' of escape, and laid bare the whole villainy which by these lights became plain as day.
#*'''2002,''' ''Two Weeks Notice'' (movie)
#*:You have a contract that says you will work until Island Towers is finalized, which I interpret as completion of construction, or I can stop you working elsewhere. And there's no '''loopholes''', because you drafted it and you're the best.
# A [[slit]] in a castle wall.  Later: any similar [[window]] for shooting a weapon or letting in light.
#*'''1719,''' Daniel Defoe, ''Robinson Crusoe''
#*:... and having a fair '''loophole''', as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.
#*'''1809,''' Maria Edgeworth, ''The Absentee''
#*:There was a '''loophole''' in this wall, to let the light in, just at the height of a person's head, who was sitting near the chimney.

===Translations===
'''method of escape'''
{{top}}
*Norwegian: [[smutthull]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slit in a castle wall'''
{{top}}
*Norwegian: [[skyteskår]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[seteira]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|French}}: [[faille]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[cavillo]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[kryphål]]

[[zh:loophole]]