<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->{{#if:{{NAMESPACE}}| |}}
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="afd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion''' in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]].<br />
Please share your thoughts on the matter at '''[[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/{{{1|Lot lizard}}}|this article's entry]]''' on the [[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion|Articles for deletion]] page.<br />
You are welcome to edit this article, but please do not blank this article or remove this notice while the discussion is in progress. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to deletion|Guide to deletion]].<br/>
<small>If you created the article, please don't take offense. Instead, please join the discussion and consider improving the article so that it meets the [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|Wikipedia inclusion criteria]].</small><br/>
<div class="NavFrame" style="padding:0;border-style:none;"><div class="NavFrame" style="border-style:none;padding:0;"><div class="NavHead" style="background:#EDF1F1;text-align:left;"><span style="font-weight:normal;">[[Template:AfD in 3 steps|How to list a page for deletion]] ([{{fullurl:Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Log/{{CURRENTYEAR}} {{CURRENTMONTHNAMEGEN}} {{CURRENTDAY}}|action=edit}} log])</span></div>
<div class="NavContent" style="display:none;background:#EDF1F1;">
{{AfD doc|{{{1|{{PAGENAME}}}}}}}
</div></div></div></div>
[[Category:Pages for deletion]]
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->
'''Lot lizard''' is [[sexual slang]] used by [[trucker]]s to refer to [[Prostitution|prostitute]]s who work at [[truck stop]]s. Lot lizards will generally go from truck to truck offering sexual services to truck drivers. They may also use [[Citizens' band radio|CB radios]] to find potential customers.  Lot Lizard is also a psychadelic metal band from Marshall Co. Alabama, whose homepage can be found at http://www.myspace.com/lotlizardmusic.


The term had been in use for many years before it was popularized in novels starting in the 1990s.

A [[Wired magazine|''Wired'' magazine]] profile on trucker culture discussed lot lizards:

:Turn on the CB radio, Mitchell warns me, and you're just as likely to hear a trucker asking about the prospects for prostitutes in a particular city as you are to hear about road conditions. "It's always, 'Where are the girls?'" he reports. In the lingo of truckers young and old, prostitutes are referred to as Lot Lizards, and they typically market themselves by simply knocking on doors of parked trucks. "If you see a truck with a 'no Lot Lizards' sticker in its window - a lizard with a red line through it," Mitchell says, "that means they don't want any bothering them."

==References==

David Diamond [http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/9.12/sheffi_pr.html The Trucker & The Professor]. ''[[Wired]]'' 9.12.

[[Category: Prostitution]]
[[Category: Sex workers]]
[[Category: Sexual slang]]