See also [[Lot]]

==English==

===Pronunciation===
*lŏt, /lɒt/, /<tt>lQt</tt>/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

#A large quantity or number; a great deal.
#:''spend a lot of money''
#:''lots of people think so''
#A separate portion; a number of things taken collectively.
#:''a lot of stationery''
#(''informal'') A number of people taken collectively.
#:''a sorry lot''
#:''a bad lot''
#A distinct portion or plot of land, usually smaller than a field.
#:''a building lot in a city''
#That which happens without human design or forethought; chance; accident; hazard; fortune; fate.
#Anything (as a die, pebble, ball, or slip of paper) used in determining a question by chance, or without man's choice or will.
#:''to cast lots''
#:''to draw lots''
#The part, or fate, that falls to one, as it were, by chance, or without his planning.
#A prize in a lottery.

====Synonyms====
*(''large quantity or number''): [[load]], [[mass]], [[pile]]
*(''number of things taken collectively''): [[batch]], [[collection]], [[group]], [[set]]
*(''informal: a number of people taken collectively''): [[crowd]], [[gang]], [[group]]
*(''distinct portion or plot of land''): [[allotment]], [[parcel]], [[plot]]
*(''that which happens without human design or forethought''): [[destiny]], [[fate]], [[fortune]]
*(''anything used in determining a question by chance''):
*(''fate that falls to one by chance''):
*(''prize in a lottery''): [[prize]]

====Derived terms====
*[[a lot]]<!--NOT "alot"-->

====Translations====

'''large quantity or number'''
''See'' '''[[a lot]]'''

'''number of things taken collectively'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[erä]]
*French: [[groupe]] ''m'', [[ensemble]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*German: [[Menge]] ''f'', [[Los]] ''n'', [[Charge]] {{f}}, [[Haufen]] {{m}}, [[Anzahl]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''informal: a number of people taken collectively'''
{{top}}
*French: [[bande]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*German: [[Gruppe]] {{f}}, [[Menge]] {{f}},  [[Haufen]] {{m}},  [[Häuflein]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''distinct portion or plot of land'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tontti]]
*German: [[Parzelle]] ''f'', [[Grund]] {{m}}, [[Grundstück]], {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''that which happens without human design or forethought'''
{{top}}
*French: [[destin]] ''m''
*German: [[Schicksal]] {{n}}, [[Los]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[destino]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''anything used in determining a question by chance'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[arpa]]
*German: [[Los]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fate that falls to one by chance'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[arpa]]
*German: [[Los]] {{n}}, [[Schicksal]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''prize in a lottery'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Los]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''lot'''

#[[lot]]
#[[destiny]]
#[[lottery ticket]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==Polish==

=== Noun ===
'''lot'''

#[[flight]]

[[Category:Polish nouns]]

[[fr:lot]]
[[io:lot]]
[[id:lot]]
[[it:lot]]
[[ku:lot]]
[[hu:lot]]
[[pl:lot]]
[[pt:lot]]
[[ru:lot]]
[[fi:lot]]