===[[Verb]]===
#To have a strong [[affection]] for.
#:'''[[Translation]]s'''
#:*[[Albanian]]: [[dashuroj]], [[dua]]
#:*[[Breton]]: [[karet]], ''radical'' kar-
#:*[[Catalan]]: [[estimar]]
#:*[[Dutch]]: [[houden van]], [[beminnen]], [[liefhebben]]
#:*[[Ekspreso]]: [[amer]]
#:*[[Esperanto]]: [[ami]]
#:*[[Estonian]]: [[armastama]]
#:*[[Finnish]]: [[rakastaa]]
#:*[[French]]: [[aimer]]
#:*[[Frisian]]: [[hâlde fan]]
#:*[[German]]: [[lieben]]
#:*[[Guarani]]: [[ayhu]] (ah-)
#:*[[Indonesian]]: [[cinta]], [[kasih]], [[sayang]]
#:*[[Interlingua]]: [[amar]]
#:*[[Italian]]: [[amare]]
#:*[[Japanese]]: [[愛する]] (あいする, aisuru)
#:*[[Korean]]: [[사랑하다]] (saranghada)
#:*[[Latin]]: [[amare]]
#:*[[Polish]]: [[kochać]]
#:*[[Portuguese]]: [[amar]]
#:*[[Spanish]]: [[amar]], [[querer]]
#:*Swedish: [[älska]]
#:*[[Tamil]]: [[காதலி]] (between man and woman-sexual love)
#:*[[Thai]]: [[รัก]]
#:*[[Tupinambá]]: [[aûsub]] (s-)
#:*[[Volapük]]: [[löfön]]
# (''colloquial'') To be strongly inclined towards s.o./doing s.th.; emphasized form of to [[like]]
#:Ex. ''I'd '''love''' to join the team''
# (''sexual'') To [[copulate]], perhaps from [[make_love]].
#:Ex. ''Damn is that girl hot!  I wish I could '''love''' her ALL night long!''

===[[Noun]]===
#Strong [[affection]].
#:'''[[Translation]]s'''
#:*[[Albanian]]: [[dashuri]] ''f''
#:*[[Breton]]: [[karantez]] ''f''
#:*[[Catalan]]: [[amor]] ''m''
#:*[[Dutch]]: [[liefde]] ''f''
#:*[[Ekspreso]]: [[amor]]
#:*[[Esperanto]]: [[amo]]
#:*[[Estonian]]: [[armastus]]
#:*[[Finnish]]: [[rakkaus]]
#:*[[French]]: [[amour]] ''m''
#:*[[German]]: [[Liebe]] ''f''
#:*[[Greek]]: [[Αγάπη]] "f" (agapi),[[ Έρωτας]] "m" (erotas). Note: the word love can be translated to either Αγάπη or Έρωτας depending on its actual meaning. The first translation is used when "pure" love is implied (eg mother-child or even the non-erotic aspect of husband-wife). The second is used for erotic love (eg girlfriend-boyfriend).
#:*[[Guarani]]: [[ayhu]] (t-)
#:*[[Indonesian]]: [[cinta]], [[kasih]], [[sayang]]
#:*[[Interlingua]]: [[amor]]
#:*[[Italian]]: [[amore]]
#:*[[Japanese]]: [[愛]] (あい, ai), [[恋]] (こい, koi), [[恋愛]] (れんあい, ren-ai), [[愛情]] (あいじょう, aijou)
#:*[[Korean]]: [[사랑]] (sarang)
#:*[[Latin]]: [[amor]]
#:*[[Polish]]: [[miłość]] ''f''
#:*[[Portuguese]]: [[amor]]
#:*[[Spanish]]: [[amor]] ''m''
#:*Swedish: [[kärlek]] ''c''
#:*[[Tamil]]: [[காதல்]] (between man and woman-sexual love), [[அன்பு]], [[பாசம்]]
#:*[[Tupinambá]]: [[aûsuba]] (t-)
#:*[[Volapük]]: [[löf]]
=== See also: ===
* "[[I love you]]" in various languages

==Related Terms==
:[[make love]], [[lovemaking]], [[love handle]], [[lovebunny]], [[lovely]], [[loved]], [[lover]], [[loving kindness]], [[loyal love]], [[love bug]].