==English==

{{rank|corner|spite|built|901|lower|lead|wouldn\'t|success}}

===Etymology===
{{ang}} ''lowren'', luren; See D. ''loeren'', Late German ''luren''. German ''lauern'' to lurk, to be on the watch, and English ''leer'', ''lurk''.

===Adjective===
'''lower'''
# {{compar}} of [[low]].

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|lower||}}

[[Transitive]]:
# To let descend by its own weight, as something suspended; to let down; as, to lower a bucket into a well; to lower a sail or a boat; sometimes, to pull down; as, to lower a flag.
#:'''''Lowered''' softly with a threefold cord of love Down to a silent grave.'' Tennyson.
# To reduce the height of; as, to lower a fence or wall; to lower a chimney or turret.
# To depress as to direction; as, to lower the aim of a gun; to make less elevated as to object; as, to lower one's ambition, aspirations, or hopes.
# To reduce the degree, intensity, strength, etc., of; as, to lower the temperature of anything; to lower one's vitality; to lower distilled liquors.
# To bring down; to humble; as, to lower one's pride.
# To reduce in value, amount, etc. ; as, to lower the price of goods, the rate of interest, etc.

[[Intransitive]]:
# To fall; to sink; to grow less; to diminish; to decrease; as, the river lowered as rapidly as it rose.
# To be dark, gloomy, and threatening, as clouds; to be covered with dark and threatening clouds, as the sky; to show threatening signs of approach, as a tempest.
#:''All the clouds that '''lowered''' upon our house.'' - Shak.
# To frown; to look sullen.
#:''But sullen discontent sat '''lowering''' on her face.'' - Dryden.

[[fr:lower]]
[[it:lower]]
[[hu:lower]]
[[pt:lower]]