<center>
[[今日]]は {{CURRENTYEAR}}年{{CURRENTMONTHNAME}}月{{CURRENTDAY}}日、 （[[{{CURRENTDAYNAME}}]]）現在([[UTC]])です。<br>ISO 8601 形式では {{CURRENTYEAR}}-{{CURRENTMONTH}}-{{CURRENTDAY}}となります。<br>
</center>

<table> <tr> <td align="left" valign="top" style="background:#f3f3f3; padding:8px">

[[Welcome newcomers|ウィクショナリーへようこそ！]]　ウィクショナリーは共同作業によってあらゆる言語の単語の意味、語源、発音を収集した辞書を作るプロジェクトです。姉妹プロジェクトであるフリー百科事典[http://ja.wikipedia.org/ ウィキペディア]の語彙を担当するプロジェクトでもあります。ウィクショナリーは2002年の12月12日に活動を開始し、これまでに {{NUMBEROFARTICLES}} の記事が書かれています。（英語版）　どなたでもこの辞書の定義を変更することができます。編集するだけであればログインも必要ありません。プロジェクトについてのより詳しい情報や、編集や参加方法などは[[Wiktionary:FAQ|Wiktionary FAQ]]をご覧ください。


ウィクショナリーに投稿されたものすべては[[ja:GNU Free Documentation License|GNU Free Documentation License]]のライセンスとなります。これはこの辞書の内容が永続的にフリーであることを意味します。詳しくは[[Wiktionary:Copyrights|著作権]]をご覧ください。


'''このページは英語版サーバに暫定的に開設されたものです。英語版とは、各単語の解説が英語で行われている辞書のことを意味します。まもなく各言語版サーバへの分割が行われますので、そのまえに日本語のリンクをたどり日本語で記事を書かないようお願いします。'''

<!--'''Please note that this is the [[Japanese]] Wiktionary: while it aims to describe all words of all languages, the definitions and descriptions are in English only. Similar Wiktionaries in other languages will be set up gradually.'''

For an example of an article in the English Wiktionary defining a non-English word, please refer to [[frei]]. In order to find a German definition of that word, it will be necessary to resort to the German Wiktionary when that becomes available.
-->
</td></tr></table>

<!-- Anything you add on this page MUST FIT the 800x600 screen -->

<div style="clear: both; border: 2px solid #ffe2e2; margin: 0em; background-color: #fff5f5; padding-bottom 0.5em;">
<div style="background: #ffe2e2; padding-top: 0.1em; padding-bottom: 0.1em; text-align: center; font-size: larger; width: 100%">'''注目の記事'''</div>
<div style="padding-top: 0.4em; padding-bottom: 0.3em;"><table border=0 align="center" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tr>
<td valign="top align="right">'''[[Special:Newpages|New Entries]]''':&nbsp;</td><td> 

<!-- add newer articles at the beginning, delete from the end -->


</td></tr></table> </div></div>

<table> <tr> <td align="left" valign="top" style="background:#FFFFE0; padding:8px">
__NOTOC__
== 索引 ==
''これら索引名はまだアイデアの段階です''

Wiktionary:五十音 - 
Wiktionary:カテゴリ -
Wiktionary:文字数 -
Wiktionary:熟語 -
Wiktionary:略語の一覧

[[By Alphabetical Order]] - 
[[Wiktionary:By topic|By topic]] -
[[Wiktionary:By word length (longest)|By word length]] -
[[Wiktionary:By part of speech|By part of speech]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Idioms|Idioms]] - 
[[Wiktionary:List of acronyms and abbreviations|List of acronyms and abbreviations]] -
[[Swadesh List]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Swadesh_template|Swadesh template]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Basic_English_template|Basic English template]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Frequency lists|Frequency lists]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Roget_Thesaurus_Classfication|By Roget's Thesaurus Classification]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Neologisms|Neologisms]] - [[Alternative Categorization Schemes]] -

== 付録 ==
[[Wiktionary 付録:色|色]] -
[[Wiktionary 付録:世界の国|世界の国]] - 
[[Wiktionary 付録:曜日|曜日]] - 
[[Wiktionary 付録:元素|元素]] - 
[[Wiktionary 付録:名字|名字]] - 
[[Wiktionary 付録:数|数]] - 
[[Wiktionary 付録:地名|地名]] - 
[[Wiktionary 付録:あだ名|あだ名]]

[[Wiktionary Appendix:Colours|Colours]] -
[[Wiktionary Appendix:Countries of the world|Countries of the World]] - 
[[Wiktionary Appendix:Days of the Week|Days of the Week]] - 
[[Wiktionary Appendix:Elements|Elements]] - 
[[Wiktionary Appendix:First names|First names]] - 
[[Wiktionary Appendix:Numbers|Numbers]] - 
[[Wiktionary Appendix:Place Names|Place Names]] - 
[[Wiktionary Appendix:Surnames|Surnames]]

== 一般的質問 ==
General Questions

[[Wiktionary:飲み屋|飲み屋]] -
[[Wiktionary:茶屋|茶屋]] - 
[[Wiktionary:ウィクショナリアン|ウィクショナリアン]]

[[Wiktionary:Beer parlour|Beer parlour]] -
[[Wiktionary:Tea room|Tea room]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Wiktionarians|Wiktionarians]]

== ヘルプ ==
[[Wiktionary:Wiktionary Definition Standards|Wiktionary Definition Standards]] -
[[Wiktionary:Pictures in Wiktionary|Pictures in Wiktionary]] -
[[Wiktionary:Criteria for inclusion|Criteria for inclusion]] -
[[Wiktionary:Thesaurus considerations|Thesaurus considerations]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Idiom dictionary considerations|Idiom dictionary considerations]] -
[[Wiktionary:Quotations|Quotations]] -
[[Wiktionary:Template|Template]] - 
[[Wiktionary:Inflection Templates|Inflection Templates]]



== [http://wikibooks.org/ 言語講座] ==

== 外国語辞典 ==
[[Wiktionary:Index of language indexes|Index of language indexes]] -
[[Wiktionary:List of languages|List of languages]] -
[[Wiktionary:Wiktionary language considerations|Wiktionary language considerations]] -
[[Wiktionary:Translators Sources|Translators Sources]]

== ライセンス==
[[Wiktionary:License discussion|License discussion]] -
[[Wiktionary:Using public domain works as a base|Using public domain works as a base]]

</td></tr></table>

== 多言語でのウィクショナリー ==
<small>[[Hauptseite|Deutsch]]  [http://de.wiktionary.org]  (coming soon) - [[Portada|Espa&ntilde;ol]] [http://es.wiktionary.org] (coming soon) - 
[[Cxefpagxo|Esperanto]] [http://eo.wiktionary.org] (coming soon) - [[Accueil|Fran&ccedil;ais]] [http://fr.wiktionary.org] (website coming soon) - [http://fy.wiktionary.org] (coming soon) -
'''日本語'''[http://ja.wiktionary.org] (coming soon) - 
[[onthaalpagina|Nederlands]] [http://nl.wiktionary.org] (coming soon) - [http://pl.wikipedia.org Polski] (coming soon) - [http://pt.wiktionary.org Portugu&ecirc;s] (coming soon) - [[Pagina principală|Română]] [http://ro.wiktionary.org] (coming soon) - [http://vi.wiktionary.org] (coming soon) - [[首页|中文]] [http://zh.wiktionary.org] (coming soon)</small>

== その他のウィキ ==
<small>[http://meta.wikipedia.org/ メタウィキペディア] - [http://ja.wikipedia.org ウィキペディア] - '''ウィクショナリー''' - [http://wikibooks.org/ ウィキブックス] - [http://wikiquote.org/ ウィキクォート] - [http://sources.wikipedia.org/ ウィキソース]</small>