== Japanese ==
{{ja-kanjitab-top}}
! [[進]] || [[歩]]
{{ja-kanjitab-bottom}}
=== Noun ===
'''進歩''' ([[しんぽ]], [[shinpo]])

# [[progress]]; [[improvement]]s in [[social welfare]].
#* [[コンピューター]]は[[急速]]な'''[[進歩]]'''を[[遂げる|遂げた]]。
#*: コンピューターはきゅうそくな'''しんぽ'''をとげた。
#*: ''konpyūtā wa kyūsoku na '''shinpo''' o togeta.''
#*: Computers have made rapid '''progress'''.
# [[Personal]] progress, usually in the [[development]] of a skill.
#* その[[生徒]]の[[進歩]]は[[申し分ない]]。
#*: そのせいとのしんぽはもうしぶない。
#*: ''sono seito no '''shinpo''' wa moushibunai.''
#*: The student’s '''progress''' is satisfactory.


=== Verb ===
'''進歩'''する ([[しんぽ]]する, [[shinpo]] suru)

# To [[improve]] (in reference to a [[society]]'s [[technological]] [[capability]] or general [[quality of life]]).
#* [[医学]]は[[めざましい|めざましく]]'''進歩して'''いる。
#*: いがくはめざましく'''しんぽして'''いる。
#*: ''igaku wa mezamashiku '''shinpo shite''' iru.''
#*: '''Progress''' in medicine is '''going ahead''' by leaps and bounds.
# To [[advance]] in [[proficiency]]; to [[make progress]] in the [[development]] of a [[skill]].
#* トムの[[日本語]]は[[少しずつ]]'''進歩して'''いる。
#*: トムのにほんごはすこしずつ'''しんぽして'''いる。
#*: ''Tomu no Nihongo wa sukoshi-zutsu '''shinpo shite''' iru.''
#*: Tom’s Japanese is '''improving''' little by little.
====Conjugation====
{{ja-suru|進歩|しんぽ|shinpo}}


=== Usage note ===
[[進歩]] is quite common as a verb, and it is most easily understood in relation to the English word ''progress''. It is frequently used in reference to social progress, particularly of a technological nature, and to personal progress in a skill. It is not generally used to refer to progress in other sorts of endeavors, such as a trip up a mountain (e.g., "Due to the blizzard, their progress was slow."), or of time in general (e.g., "As the evening progressed, the party became more chaotic.").

[[Category:Japanese language|しんぽ]]
[[Category:Japanese nouns|しんぽ]]
[[Category:Japanese Type 3 Verbs|しんぽ]]