* '''Alternate form''': [[耀]]

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index| Radical]] Number 72''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index 日|日]]+14 strokes

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index|Stroke number]]''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index 18|18]]

*'''Stroke order''':
*# The [[日]] character is drawn.
*# ([[羽]]) The left-most of the two characters that look like mirrored E's is done as follows :
*## The top-most horizontal line and the vertical line is done in one stroke, from top-left to bottom-right.
*## The middle horizontal stroke is done, from left to right.
*## The bottom-most horizontal stroke is done, from left to right.
*# The other 'mirror-E' on the right is done, in the same way.
*# ([[隹]]) The diagonal stroke under the left-most 'mirror-E' is done, from top-right to bottom-left.
*# The vertical stroke underneath the diagonal stroke is done, from top to bottom.
*# Though it may not look like it is, the remaining vertical stroke is split into two parts.  The part between the right-most 'mirror-E' and the horizontal line below it is done, from top to bottom.
*# The horizontal line below the right-most 'mirror-E' is done, from left to right.
*# The remaining vertical stroke is done, from top to bottom.
*# The three remaining horizontal strokes are done, from top-most to bottom-most, each from left to right.

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese four corner index|Four-Corner System]]''': 6701<sub>4</sub>

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese Cangjie index|Cangjie input]]''': 日尸一土 (ASMG)

* '''Graphical Significance and Origin''': 

* '''Common Meaning'''
*# [[glorious]], as [[sun]]
*# [[daylight]], [[sunlight]]

----

== Chinese [[Hanzi]] ==

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[Mandarin]]'''
*** '''[[Pinyin]]''': yào (yao4)
*** '''[[Wade-Giles]]''': yao<sup>4</sup>
*** '''[[Yale]]''': 
** '''[[Cantonese]]'''
*** '''[[Jyutping]]''':
*** '''[[Penkyamp]]''': 
*** '''[[Yale]]''': yiu6

===Compounds===
*[[耀武扬威]]
*[[耀眼]]

* '''Other info''': 

----

== Japanese [[Kanji]] ==

* '''Readings'''
** '''[[On]]''': [[よう]] (yō)
** '''[[Kun]]''': [[ひかり]] (hikari), [[かがやく]] (kagayaku)

#used for the days of the week, for example [[日]]曜 (nichiyo) or 日曜日 (nichiyobi) = Sunday

===Compounds===
*[[曜日]]
*[[日曜]], [[日曜日]]
*[[月曜]], [[月曜日]]
*[[火曜]], [[火曜日]]
*[[水曜]], [[水曜日]]
*[[木曜]], [[木曜日]]
*[[金曜]], [[金曜日]]
*[[土曜]], [[土曜日]]

* '''Other info''': 
----

== [[Korean]] [[Hanja]] ==

* '''[[Hangeul]]''': 요

* '''[[Eumhun]] reading''': 

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[The 2000 South Korean Revised Romanization|The 2000 South Korean Revised]]''': yo
** '''[[McCune-Reischauer]]''': yo
** '''[[Yale]]''': yo

----

== Dictionary Information ==

* KangXi: 0501.110
* Morobashi: 14227'
* Dae Jaweon: 0871.200
* Hanyu Da Zidian: 21540.050

== Technical Information ==

* '''Unicode''':
** Hex: 66DC
** Decimal: 26332
* '''Big5''':
** Hex: C260
** Decimal: 49760