==Korean==
===Etymology===
===Noun===
'''불''' (bul) cf. Old English ''[[bœl]]''
#[[fire]], [[flame]] (cf. Dutch [[vuur]], Greek ''pyr'')
#[[light]]
#[[furnace]], [[fireplace]]
#(male) [[genitalia]], [[testicle]], [[testis]] 

====Derived terms====
'''fire, light, fireplace''' (1-3)

*불[[길]] (-gil) [[flame]]
*불[[꽃]] (-kkoch) [[flame]], [[flare]]
*불[[똥]] (-ttong) [[spark]]
*불[[바다]] (-bada) [[widespread]] fire
*불[[붙]]다 (-butda) to [[catch on fire]]
*불[[빛]] (-bich) [[light]], color of fire 
*불[[사르]]다 (-sareuda) to [[burn]]
*불[[장난]] (-jangnan) [[playing]] with fire or love 
*불[[지르]]다 (-jireuda) to [[set on fire]]
*불[[쬐]]다 (-jjoeda) to [[warm]] (oneself at the fire)
*불[[켜]]다 (-kyeoda) to [[light]] (a candle or lamp)
*불[[타]]다 (-tada) to [[burn]], [[blaze]]
*불[[태우]]다 (-taeUda) to [[burn]]
*불[[피우]]다 (-piuda) to [[make a fire]]
'''male genitalia''' (4)
*[[부룩]][[소]] (burug-so) [[bullock]], [[young]] [[bull]] 
*[[불깐]][[소]] (bulkkan-so) [[bullock]], [[ox]]
*불[[알]] (bulAl) [[testicle]], [[testis]]
*불[[앗]]다 (bulAsda) to [[castrate]]
*불[[치]]다 (bulchida) to [[castrate]]
*[[악대]][[소]] (agdae-so) [[bullock]], [[ox]] (cf. German [[Ochse]] from Old High German [[ohso]])  
*[[황소]] (hwang-so) [[bull]]

====Related terms====
*[[검댕]] (geomdaeng) [[soot]]
*[[기름]] (gireum) [[oil]] 
*[[굴뚝]] (gulttug) [[chimney]]
*[[굽]]다 (gubda) to [[bake]], [[roast]]
*[[끓]]다 (kkeulhda) to [[boil]], [[bubble]] (frequentive)
*[[때]]다 (ttaeda) to make a fire, [[burn]], [[heat]] (the room)
*[[땔감]] (ttaelgam) [[fuel]]
*[[뜨겁]]다 (tteugeobda) to be [[hot]]
*[[물]] (mul) [[water]] (as a great [[antagonism]]) 
*[[물키버]] (mulkibeo) [[Mulciber]] "softener" (nickname of [[Vulcan]] perhaps as a "hardener" of metal)  
*[[밝]]다 (balgda) to be [[bright]]
*[[부글]][[부글]] (bugeul-bugeul) [[bubbling]] 
*[[부뚜막]] (buttumag) [[furnace]] [[top]]
*[[부삽]] (busab, busap) [[fire]] [[shovel]]  
*[[부시]](busi) [[flint]]
*[[부시]]다 (busida) to be [[dazzling]], [[glaring]]
*[[부엌]] (bueok) [[kitchen]] (cf. Latin ''[[focus]]'' "furnace, fireplace", Spanish ''[[fuego]]'' "fire")
*[[부젓가락]] (bu-jeosgarag) [[fire]] [[tongs]]
*[[부집게]] (bu-jibge) [[fire]] [[tongs]]
*[[부채]] (buchae) [[fan]]
*[[불리]]다 (bullida) to [[harden]] (metal)
*[[불카누스]] (bulkanuseu) (loanword) [[Vulcan]] (from Latin [[Vulcanus]]) 
*[[빛]] (bich, bit) [[light]]
*[[숯]] (such, sut) [[charcoal]] (cf. [[soot]]) 
*[[아궁이]] (agungI) [[fire]] [[hole]], [[fireplace]], [[furnace]] (cf. Latin ''[[ignis]]'', Sanskrit [[अग्नि]] (agni), Serbian ''[[oganj]]'', Slovene ''[[ogenj]]'' "fire") 
*[[연기]] (yeongi) [[smoke]]
*[[이글]]이글 (igeul-igeul) blazingly, glaringly
*이글[[거리]]다 (igeul-georida) to [[blaze]], [[flare]], [[glare]]
*[[잉걸]] (inggeol) [[blaze]], [[flare]], [[glare]], [[ingle]] (Homophonic!)
*[[장작]] (jangjag) [[firewood]]
*[[재]] (jae) [[ashes]]
*[[풀무]] (pulmu) [[bellows]], [[blower]] (cf. Latin ''[[pulmo]]'' "lung")

===Verb===
'''불다''' (bulda)
# to [[blow]]
# to [[confess]]

====Derived terms====
*불어[[나]]다 (bulEo-nada) to [[increase]]
*불어[[넣]]다 (bulEo-neohda) to [[inspire]]

====Related terms====
*[[나무]] (namu) [[tree]], [[wood]], [[timber]]
*[[물]] (mul) [[water]]
*[[바람]] (baram) [[wind]]
*[[보풀]] (bopul) [[nap]], [[shag]] (cf. Latin [[populus]] "[[people]]") 
*[[볼]] (bol) [[cheek]] (homonym to [[ball]])
*[[볼기]] (bolgi) [[buttocks]]
*[[볼록]] (bollog) [[convex]]
*[[부레]] (bure) [[bladder]] (Old English ''[[blædre]]'')
*[[부르]]다 (bureuda) (belly, stomach) to be [[full]];
*[[부룩]][[소]] (burug-so) [[bullock]], [[young]] [[bull]]
*[[부아]] (bua) [[lung]] 
*[[부풀]]다 (bupulda) to [[bulge]], [[inflate]], [[swell]] (cf. Latin [[phallus]] "erect penis")
*[[부피]] (bupi) [[bulk]], [[volume]]
*[[불]] (bul) [[genitalia]], [[testicle]], [[testis]] (cf. [[bull]], [[bullock]], Latin [[phallus]] "erect penis")
*[[불룩]] (bullug) [[bulging]], [[inflated]], [[swollen]]
*[[불리]]다 (bullida) to [[fill]] ([[stomach]]); [[harden]] (metal in fire); [[soak]] (wood, etc. in water), [[grow]], [[increase]], [[exaggerate]]; [[winnow]], be [[blown]] (as "Dust in the Wind"); be [[called]]; (cf. The '''[[w:yin-yang|yin-yang]]''' and '''[[w:five elements|five elements]]''' may be noted here.)
*[[뿔]] (ppul) [[horn]], [[protrusion]] (cf. Latin [[phallus]] "erect penis")   
*[[소뿔]] (soppul) bull's horn (cf. Hebrew ''shofar'' "ram's horn" or perhaps "bull's horn" at a certain point in time) 
*[[쇠]] (soe) [[iron]], [[metal]]
*[[풀무]] (pulmu) [[bellows]], [[blower]] (cf. Latin [[pulmo]] "lung") 
*[[흙]] (heulg) [[earth]], [[soil]], [[dust]]

[[Category: Korean nouns]]
[[Category: Korean verbs]]

[[ko:불]]