'''Ecocide''' is the killing of an [[ecosystem]], which includes consuming it and using it to feed some other process or system - [[ecophagy]].  There are however ways to render an ecosystem not viable that do not require consuming or crushing all of its parts.  It is thus a serious mistake to assume that measures to prevent ecophagy or conversion of the living matter to non-living matter, necessarily will prevent ecocide.

== Criteria for life ==

A difficult question is whether an ecosystem is alive in the sense of a single living organism.  Any form of [[life]] has a form of [[homeostasis]] which keeps it at maximum [[entropy]], that is, shedding heat.  Meanwhile, its internal life processes are [[negentropic]], increasing the degree of order of matter in the body.  This, along with the ability to [[reproduction|reproduce]], are usually cited as the two most important attributes of any life form.  

=== Reproduction ===

An ecosystem typically has a [[homeorhetic]] equilibrium rather than a full homeostasis.  However, a [[virus]] or [[prion]] or [[molecular assembler]] or perhaps a [[clanking replicator]] also lacks their own reproduction, homeostasis, and thus full status as a life form, but it would not be difficult to identify when they had been "killed", i.e. lost their integrity or "died", unable to perform their normal functions any more.

=== Resource ===

From a strictly human [[point of view]], the most reasonable way to assess the life or lack of life of any ecosystem is whether it is capable of an [[ecological yield]] of fresh air, clean water, etc. - providing [[nature's services]], on which our own lives depend.  This is the reason why we might care about ecocide, of course, which aside from being an [[aesthetic]] or [[ethics|ethical]] issue, is of course a matter of sheer survival for those who depend on the endangered ecosystem in any way.

=== Depletion ===

From this point of view, there are many known cases of utter disabling of nature's services due to [[pollution]], [[erosion]], loss of [[topsoil]] due to [[strip mining]] or overintensive [[agriculture]] - perhaps leaving a minimal ecosystem such as a [[desert]] not capable of performing the same services or life forms as prior to the ecocide, [[flooding]], [[salt]] intrusion - such as due to [[shrimp farm]]ing, and (most commonly) [[deforestation]].

== Examples ==

Some well known examples are the drying up of the [[Aral Sea]], the advancing of the [[Sahara Desert]] into what were the [[grain]]-producing regions of the [[Roman Empire]], the erasure and poisoning of farm lands along the Western Front during [[World War I]] (see [[technological advancement during World War I]] for details re: mud) and the total loss of all trees from [[Easter Island]], which today is simply grassland, incapable of supporting a large population.  This last is a signal case often cited by [[ecologist]]s, who refer to [[Easter Island Syndrome]] as evidence that human beings may be naturally inclined to ecocide, and do indeed '''shit where they live''', as the popular expression (and the song ''[[Humans Are Stupid]]'', by [[Mendelsohn Joe]]) suggests.  ''See also [[misanthropology]].''

== Related concepts ==

The related concept of [[dieoff]] in [[population biology]] refers to the precipitous drop in any population once it has [[overgrazing|overgrazed]] its environment to the point where it is simply no longer viable as a population.  This usually occurs far before a full-spectrum ecocide, however, as few organisms consume a wide range of foods, nor directly transform (or "[[terraform]]") [[ecoregion]]s simply to serve their own purposes.  Thus total [[extinction]] of all life seems unlikely.

== See also ==
*[[list of ecology topics]]
*[[list of environment topics]]

[[Category:Ecology]]
[[Category:Ethics]]