{{webster}}
==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[ecg]]''.  Cognate with German [[Ecke]], Dutch [[egge]], Swedish [[egg#Swedish|egg]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ɛʤ/}}
*{{audio|en-us-edge.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#The [[boundary]] line of a [[surface]].
#{{geometry}} The joining line between two [[vertex|vertices]] of a [[polygon]].
#{{geometry}} The place where two [[face]]s of a [[polyhedron]] meet.
#An [[advantage]] (as ''have the edge on'')
# The thin cutting side of the [[blade]] of an [[instrument]]; as, the ''edge'' of an [[ax]], [[knife]], [[sword]], or [[scythe]]. Hence, figuratively, that which cuts as an edge does, or [[wound]]s deeply, etc.
#:He which hath the sharp sword with two ''edges''. ''Rev. ii. 12.''
#:Slander,<BR> Whose ''edge'' is sharper than the sword. ''Shak.''
# Any sharp terminating border; a margin; a [[brink]]; extreme [[verge]]; as, the ''edge'' of a table, a precipice.
#:Upon the ''edge'' of yonder coppice. ''Shak.''
#:In worst extremes, and on the perilous ''edge''<BR> Of battle. ''Milton.''
#:Pursue even to the very ''edge'' of destruction. ''Sir W. Scott.''
# Sharpness; readiness or fitness to cut; keenness; intenseness of [[desire]].
#:The full ''edge'' of our indignation. ''Sir W. Scott.''
#:Death and persecution lose all the ill that they can have, if we do not set an ''edge'' upon them by our fears and by our vices. ''Jer. Taylor.''
# The border or part [[adjacent]] to the line of [[division]]; the beginning or early part; as, in the ''edge'' of evening. "On the ''edge'' of winter."  ''Milton.''
#{{cricket}} The edge of a cricket bat.
#{{graphtheory}} Any of the connected pairs of [[vertex|vertices]] in a [[graph]].
#In male [[masturbation]], a level of sexual arousal that is maintained just short of reaching the [[point of inevitability]], or [[climax]].

====Synonyms====
*(''advantage''): [[advantage]], [[gain]]
*(''sharp terminating border''): [[brink]], [[lip]], [[margin]], [[rim]]
*(''in graph theory''): [[line]]

====Derived terms====
*[[on edge]]
*[[on the edge]]
*[[top edge]]
*[[bottom edge]]
*[[inside edge]]
*[[outside edge]]

====Related terms====
*[[edging]]
*[[edgy]]

====Translations====

'''boundary line of a surface'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[buzë]] ''f''
*Catalan: [[vora]] ''f''
*Croatian: [[rub]] ''m''
*Danish: [[rand]]
*Esperanto: [[rando]]
*Finnish: [[reuna]]
*French: [[bord]] ''m''
*German: [[Rand]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[szél]]
*Italian: [[orlo]] ''m''
*Polish: [[krawędź]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[margem]] ''f''
*Sardinian (Campidanese): [[vora]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[orilla]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[rand]]
*Telugu: [[అంచు]] (aMchu)
{{bottom}}

'''joining line between two vertices of a polygon'''
{{top}}
*French: [[côté]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[krawędź]] {{f}}
*Português: [[lado]]
*Telugu: [[భుజము]] (bhujamu)
{{bottom}}

'''place where two faces of a polyhedron meet'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[särmä]]
*French: [[côté]] ''m''
*Português: [[face]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''an advantage'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''thin cutting side of the blade of an instrument'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[terä]]
*Português: [[fio]], [[gume]]
*Sardinian: [[atta]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[ostrze]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''that which cuts as an edge does, or wounds deeply'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[terä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''any sharp terminating border; a margin; a brink; extreme verge'''
{{top}}
*French: [[bord]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[bordo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''sharpness; readiness or fitness to cut; keenness; intenseness of desire'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''border or part adjacent to the line of division; the beginning or early part'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[reunus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''edge of a cricket bat'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in graph theory: any of the pairs of vertices in a graph'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[http://mathworld.wolfram.com/PolygonEdge.html Mathworld article on the edges of polygons]
*[http://mathworld.wolfram.com/PolyhedronEdge.html Mathworld article on the edges of polyhedra]
*[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0394499905/qid%3D1107575269/sr%3D11-1/ref%3Dsr%5F11%5F1/103-9235578-4630251 Science book]


===Verb===
{{en-verb|edg|ing}}

#''(transitive)'' To move an [[object]] [[slowly]] and carefully in a particular direction.
#:''He edged the book across the table.''
# ''(intransitive)'' To [[move]] [[slowly]] and carefully in a particular direction.
#:''He edged away from her.''
#{{cricket}} ''(transitive)'' To hit the [[ball]] with an edge of the bat, causing a [[fine]] [[deflection]].
# ''(transitive)'' Triming the margin of a lawn where the grass meets the sidewalk, usually with an electric or gas-powered lawn edger.

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fa:edge]]
[[fr:edge]]
[[io:edge]]
[[it:edge]]
[[hu:edge]]
[[ru:edge]]
[[fi:edge]]
[[sv:edge]]
[[vi:edge]]
[[zh:edge]]