==English==
===Pronunciation===
* /ip/

===Etymology===
Onomatopoeic.

===Noun===
'''eep'''
# A short scream or yelp, usually of the word ‘eep’.  (Also used as ''interjection.)''


===Quotations===
* '''2000,''' [[w:Adam Cadre|Adam Cadre]], ''Ready, Okay!''
*: Then she ripped the door off its hinges and bent the flimsy metal in half between her hands.
*: “'''Eep''',” I said.
* '''2000,''' John Palisano, ''Journey Through Time'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0738826049&id=1LFb_NU01VgC&pg=PA98&lpg=PA98&dq=%22eep+*+said%22&sig=UC6HjuFNxoIPrw7f1drNJwIercc]
*: On the opposite side a bottle crashed.  Shards twinkle screamed in a circle around her head. “'''Eep''',” she said, breathed, and nearly screamed.
* '''2002,''' Randy Peyser, ''Crappy to Happy'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN1590030257&id=-cGTbRvPCJEC&pg=PA29&lpg=PA29&dq=%22+eeping%22&sig=ragYUChNWh5WdjH52ItIbJjYD3o]
*: She encouraged them to express their teeny-tiniest selves with an “'''eep'''.”

===Verb===
'''eep'''
# To vocalise an short scream or yelp; to produce an eep.

===Quotations===
* '''2002,''' Randy Peyser, ''Crappy to Happy'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN1590030257&id=-cGTbRvPCJEC&pg=PA29&lpg=PA29&dq=%22+eeping%22&sig=ragYUChNWh5WdjH52ItIbJjYD3o]
*: Now there are fulfilled women happily “'''eeping'''” all over the Bay Area. I swear to you this is true.
* '''2002,''' Chris Crutcher, “The Other Pin,” in ''Athletic Shorts'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0060507837&id=BhSYywd2SqMC&pg=PA75&lpg=PA75&dq=%22he+eeps%22&sig=Lp5m2rWEorvsRu5gjHTu4R1bfV4]
*: Petey’s voice rises to that preadolescent pitch it always hits when he feels his life spinning out of control. “Dues are what Boy Scouts pay,” he '''eeps.'''
* '''2003,''' John Treadwell Nichols, ''The Voice of the Butterfly'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0811839907&id=OdDs928s-PwC&pg=PA160&lpg=PA160&dq=%22she+eeped%22&sig=mtJl10KCTmZxASjLdTwzUg_V3a0]
*: Before I could answer, a tiny green krait dropped out of Tristan’s nostril and slithered swiftly toward Susan’s sandaled feet: She '''eeped''', dropped my arm, and fled for her life.