{{rfc}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
From Old Norse ''[[egg#Old Norse|egg]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*ĕg, /eg/, /<tt>eg</tt>/

===Noun===
'''egg''' ([[countable]] and [[uncountable]]; ''plural:'' '''[[eggs]]''')

# (''Biology'', ''Countable'') the female primary cell, the [[ovum]]
# (''Zoology'', ''Countable'') an approximately [[spherical]] or [[ellipsoidal]] body produced by birds, snakes, insects and other animals housing the [[embryo]] during its development.
# (''Countable'') The egg of a hen, goose, quail or other bird used by humans as food.
# (''Uncountable'') The contents of one or more (hen's usually) eggs used as a food.
#:''I also determine the minimal amount of egg required to make good mayonnaise''.
# (''person'') a joking term for someone of Caucasian origin who shows more interest in Asian culture (especially East Asian...) than Western culture, or who "acts Asian." This may include interest in Asian languages, dress, history, habits etc. The term uses the food motif of the more common [[banana]], which describes the inverse: a person of Asian heritage who is more interested in Western culture.
#* While the term egg is usually one of pride for the egg in question, other terms involving the notion of acting like another race can range from mildly to highly pejorative. It ties in with complicated issues like racism, separatism and notions of racial betrayal.
#* Related slang terms: 
#** [[japoser]] - someone interested in learning Japanese just to translate jpop lyrics or anime
#** [[Wapanese]] - a perjorative term based on the expression Wigger. Wapanese deals specifically with a white person who is obsessed with Japan, often especially anime, and imagines him or herself to be an authority on Japan, yet usually lacks a real understanding of or respect for Japan. Wapanese tend to be middle class white teenagers or college students who feel alienated by Western society and imagine that they would be accepted in Japan.
#** A good or bad egg is also an English slang expression for describing someone as good or bad. "Bad egg" was often used as public-school slang in the late 19th century, as an analogous parallel between the foul taste of a spoiled egg and the emotional encounter with a "bad egg" person. The history of the usage "good egg" dates back to the early 20th century in educational institutions to describe agreeable and pleasant company; "an exclamation of enthusiastic approbation" according to the Oxford Dictionary. It is thought to be merely a literal inversion of "bad egg". The popularity and spread of these terms into mainstream language is said to have been influenced by such a usage in P.G. Wodehouse's Something Fresh in 1915.  nterestingly, "bad egg" is one of the few (possibly the only) English slang expressions that can be translated directly into Chinese, in which it is also slang and is understood to have exactly the same meaning (坏蛋, pronounced hùai dàn in Mandarin). Given the newer, racial spin on the term "egg" described above, this coincidence might be seen as humorous. It is unclear whether these two terms are cognate or simply coincidentally the same.

====Synonyms====

*(1): [[ovum]], [[oocyte]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Alabama]]: [[hanakbootoklo]]
*{{alb}}: [[vezë]] {{f}}
*Arabic: [[بيضة]]
*[[w:Breton language|Breton]]: [[vi]] {{m}}
*[[w:Bulgarian language|Bulgarian]]: [[яйце]]
*[[w:Catalan language|Catalan]]: [[ou]] {{m}}
*[[Cornish]]: [[oy]] {{m}}
*{{ch}}: [[chada']]
*[[Chichewa]]: [[dzira]]
*[[w:Chinese language|Chinese]]: [[蛋]] (dàn)
*Czech: [[vejce]], [[vajíčko]] {{n}}
*Danish: [[æg]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[ei]] {{n}}, [[kippenei]], [[eendenei]], [[slangenei]]
*[[w:Esperanto|Esperanto]]: [[ovo]]
*Estonian: [[munarakk]] (1), [[muna]] (2, 3, 4)
*Finnish: [[muna]] (2), [[munasolu]] (1)
*French: [[œuf]] {{m}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[aei]]
*German: [[Ei]] {{n}}
*{{grk}}: [[αβγό]] (avgó)
*[[w:Guaraní language|Guaraní]]: [[upi'a]] (t-)
*[[Hawaiian]]: [[hua]], [[hua moa]] (hen's egg)
*[[w:Hebrew language|Hebrew]]: [[ביצה]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[tojás]]
*[[w:Icelandic language|Icelandic]]: egg
*[[w:Ido|Ido]]: [[ovo]]
*Indonesian: [[telur]]
*[[w:Interlingua|Interlingua]]: [[ovo]]
*Italian: [[uovo]] {{m}} (''plural'': [[uova]] {{f}})
{{mid}}
*{{jp}}: [[卵]] ([[たまご]], tamago)
*Korean: [[달걀]] (dalgyal), [[계란]] ([[鷄卵]], gyeran)
*{{lo}}: [[ໄຂ]] (kay)
*Latin: [[ovum]] {{n}}
*[[w:Lithuanian language|Lithuanian]]: (1): [[kiaušinėlis]] {{m}}, [[kiaušialąstė]] {{f}}; (2, 3): [[kiaušinis]] {{m}}
*[[w:Malay language|Malay]]: [[telur]]
*[[Maori]]: [[heeki]], [[hua]]
*{{nah}}: [[totoltetl]] (3)
*Norwegian<!--do not wikify-->: egg {{n}}
*Old English: [[æg|ǣġ]]
*Polish: [[jajko]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[ovo]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[ou]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[яйцо]] (yaytsó) {{n}}
*[[Sicilian]]: [[ovu]] {{m}}
*Slovak: [[vajce]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[huevo]] {{m}}
*[[w:Swahili language|Swahili]]: [[yai]]
*Swedish: [[ägg]] {{n}}
*[[w:Tagalog language|Tagalog]]: [[itl&#243;g]]
*[[Tamil]]: [[முட்டை]] (muttai)
*{{tpn}}: [[upi'a]] (t-)
*Turkish: [[yumurta]], [[tohum]] (fertilized)
*{{ua}}: [[яйце]] (yaytsé) {{n}}
*[[w:Volapük|Volapük]]: [[nög]]
*[[w:Welsh language|Welsh]]: [[wy]]
*[[w:Zulu language|Zulu]]: [[i(li)qanda]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|egg||}}

# To throw eggs at.
# ''(with "on"):'' To encourage.

===Related terms===
*[[boiled egg]]
*[[cuckoo's egg]]
*[[egg and spoon race]]
*[[egg beaters]]
*[[egg cup]]
*[[egg flip]]
*[[egg-nog]], [[eggnog]]
*[[egg on]]
*[[egg-shell]], [[eggshell]]
*[[egg white]]
*[[egg yolk]]
*[[Easter egg]]
*[[fried egg]]
*[[golden egg]]
*[[have egg on one's face]]
*[[nest egg]]
*[[over-egg]]
*[[scrambled egg]]

===See also===
*[[caviar]]
*[[roe]]
[[Category:Eggs|*]]
[[Category:Foods]]
[[Category:Biology]]
----

==Icelandic==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[ˈɛɡ̊ː]}}

===Noun===
'''egg''' ''n.''

# [[#English|egg]]

'''egg''' {{f}}

# [[edge]]

{{is-decl-noun|egg|egg|eggi|eggs
|eggið|eggið|egginu|eggsins
|egg|egg|eggjum|eggja
|eggin|eggin|eggjunum|eggjanna}}

'''egg''' ''f.''

# the sharp [[edge]] of a [[knife]], [[sword]], or similar

{{is-decl-noun|egg|egg|egg|eggjar
|eggin|eggina|egginni|eggjarinnar
|eggjar|eggjar|eggjum|eggja
|eggjarnar|eggjarnar|eggjunum|eggjanna}}

====Synonyms====
[[blað]] ''n.''

----

==Norwegian==
===Noun===
'''egg'''

# egg

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''egg''' {{c}} ({{p}} [[eggar]], ''def sing'' [[eggen]], ''def pl'' [[eggarna]])

# The sharp [[edge]] of a [[knife]], [[sword]] or similar.

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:Egg]]
[[de:egg]]
[[io:Egg]]
[[it:egg]]
[[ja:egg]]
[[pl:egg]]
[[ru:Egg]]
[[fi:egg]]
[[zh:Egg]]