:''See also: '''''[[Ei]]''''', '''''[[-ei]]'''
==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ɛɪ/}}

===Noun===
{{nl-noun-2d|eieren|eitje|eiertje}}
'''ei''' {{n}}
# [[egg]]

----
==Estonian==

===Adverb===
'''ei'''
# [[no]] (''a negating expression'')

====Antonyms====
* [[jaa]]
* [[jah]]
* [[küll]]

===Auxiliary===
'''ei'''
*[[don't]], [[doesn't]], [[not]]: used in negative forms of non-imperative verbs. ''[[Ma]] ei [[tea]].'' I don't know. (Compare: ''Ma [[tean]].'' I know.)

====Usage note====
The verb follows the word ''ei''. 

In the present tense indicative, the form of the verb coincides with the imperative of the second person singular. In past tenses indicative, the form of the verb is personal past participle. In the conditional mood, the form of the verb coincides with third person singular conditional in the present tense or the past tense. In the indirect mood, the form of the verb is the indirect form.

----
==Finnish==
{{Finnish index|ei}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ei/}}

===Etymology===
Derived from Finno-Ugric negative verb stem ''*e-''. Cognates include Estonian ''ei'' and North Sámi ''[[ii]]''.

===Adverb===
'''ei'''
#[[no]] (a negating expression)

====Antonyms====
*[[kyllä]]

===Auxiliary verb===
'''ei'''
#third person singular form of the [[negative verb]], used also with impersonal forms. The English translations include [[don't|don’t]], [[doesn't|doesn’t]] and [[no#English|no]].

====Conjugation====
The negative verb is conjugated only in person, not in tense or mood. (For negative verb in the imperative mood, see [[älä]].) There is no infinitive form.
<table border="1">
<tr><th>&nbsp;    </th><th>singular</th><th>plural</th></tr>
<tr><td>first person</td><td>en      </td><td>emme  </td></tr>
<tr><td>second person</td><td>et      </td><td>ette  </td></tr>
<tr><td>third person</td><td>ei      </td><td>eivät </td></tr>
</table>

====Usage notes====
*The negative verb is used with the connegative form of the main verb. It is identical to the second person singular imperative in the indicative present; in the indicative past, the past participle is used. The third person singular form is used in the conditional. The potential mood connegative ends in the marker for the mood, ''-ne-'', without personal suffixes.<!--should be expanded with impersonal forms.-->

===Related terms===
*[[epä-]]
*[[evätä]]

===Derived terms===
*[[eih]]
*[[eikä]]
*[[eiköhän]]
*[[eittämättä]]

----
==Latin==

===Interjection===
'''ei'''
# [[oh]]! (''expressing alarm'')

===Pronoun===
'''eī'''
#to him, for him, to her, for her, to it, for it (''dative singular masculine, feminine and neuter of [[is]]'')
#they (''nominative plural masculine of [[is]]'')

====Translations====
*English: [[they]] (2)

----
==Romanian==

===Pronunciation===
*{{SAMPA|/jej/}}, {{IPA||/jej/}}

===Pronoun===
'''ei'''
# [[they]] (''used for an all-male or mixed-sex group'')

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Danish: [[ei#Danish|ei]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ej]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Estonian adverbs]]
[[Category:Finnish adverbs]]
[[Category:Finnish verbs]]
[[Category:Latin interjections]]
[[Category:Latin pronouns]]
[[Category:Romanian pronouns]]

[[de:ei]]
[[el:ei]]
[[es:ei]]
[[fr:ei]]
[[gl:ei]]
[[io:ei]]
[[id:ei]]
[[it:ei]]
[[nl:ei]]
[[no:ei]]
[[ro:ei]]
[[ru:ei]]
[[fi:ei]]
[[zh:ei]]