'''Either''' is an [[English language|English]] [[pronoun]], [[adjective]], and [[conjunction]], meaning [[one]], or the [[other]], of [[two]].  Its [[etymology|origin]] is from [[Old English]] ''&aelig;ghwe&thorn;er'', which literally analyses as a [[compound word]] "any - whether."

''[[Either-or]]'' means "one, or the other, but not both."

''Either'' and ''or'' are occasionally misleading terms in the sometimes loose interface between English and [[logic]].  They can be used to mean a simple [[logical disjunction]] between two alternatives (either one, or the other, or both); but ''either . . . or'' frequently implies an [[exclusive disjunction]] between two incompatible alternatives.  

== Pronunciation ==

''Either'' has two different pronunciations in modern English.  [[SAMPA]] /i:D=r\'/ ("ee-ther") is the pronunciation usually encountered in [[American English]], and is the pronunciation of the majority of English speakers.   The pronunciation /aID=r\'/ ("eye-ther") is associated with [[British English]] and [[Canadian English]], but it is not universal in either place, nor in [[Australian English]] and other dialects that take their lead from British English.  

A recurring [[urban legend]] says that the ''eye-ther'' pronunciation originated with King [[George I of Great Britain|George I]] or another of the [[House of Hanover|Hanoverian]] kings of [[England]]; the king was a [[Germany|German]] who did not speak English as a native language, and was misled by [[English spelling]].  The new-modelled royal pronunciation was imitated by his courtiers, and as such became a prestige form among those subject to their influence.  At this remove, this tale is hard to confirm or disconfirm.   

== Usage ==

A frequent difficulty in [[English usage]] concerns the permissibility of using ''either'' to refer to more than one alternative.  Generally, ''either'' refers to exactly two alternatives.  When there are more, linguistic [[prescriptivism|prescriptivists]] counsel the use of ''any''.  One generally accepted exception to this rule is when ''either'' is used as a conjunction to  introduce a string of ''either . . . or'' alternatives:

* ''Either she will sink, or swim, or get out of the pool.''

''Any'' is not used as a conjunction, and cannot be used in this context.