{{wordnomination}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Alternative spellings===
* [[ecstasis]]

===Etymology===
Greek '''[[ἔκστασις]]''' ''(ecstasis,'' [[displacement]], [[cession]], [[trance]])

===Noun===
'''ekstasis''' ''(plural:'' '''[[ekstases]]''')
# ''(mysticism'' and ''philosophy)'' The state of being beside one's self or rapt out of one's self.



===Related words===
*[[ecstasy]]
 
===Quotations===
* '''[1914], 1995,''' Holden E Sampson, ''The True Mystic'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=Qqm7RQvTQ3sC&pg=PA28&lpg=PA28&sig=5lVGuxEcsuYip2s9t2xgSTWp4nc] 
*: In Psychics the strange phenomenon of ''“Katalepsis”'' experienced by developed “trance-mediumship” bears so close a resemblance, physically, to '''Ekstasis''', that the two are often taken for one and the same thing.  
* '''1918,''' Holden Edward Sampson, ''Theou Sophia'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=Ngm1fKwefZkC&pg=PA271&lpg=PA271&sig=No3CTw_YWFZF6a8U2Gv-m_ep7HY]
*: In no wise is it possible for the State of '''<span style="font-variant:small-caps">Ekstasis</span>''' to be attained by Mankind except as the prelude to <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Initiation</span> in the <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Divine Mysteries</span>. When the <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Initiations</span> have been fully accomplished, to the <span style="font-variant:small-caps">Seventh Golden Gate</span>, there is no further need for the Processes requisite to induce the State of '''<span style="font-variant:small-caps">Ekstasis</span>'''.
* '''1956,''' Jean-Paul Sartre, ''Being and Nothingness,'' Hazel E. Barnes tr. [http://print.google.com/print?id=X6RtpboH478C&pg=PA44&lpg=PA44&sig=rn7rLG6wKdO9yu4tCE59PKCfITg]
*: We find ourselves then in the presence of two human '''ekstases''': the '''ekstasis''' which throws us into being-in-itself and the '''ekstasis''' which engages us in non-being.
* '''1984,''' Martin Heidegger, ''The Metaphysical Foundations of Logic,'' Michael Heim tr. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=NpLPePqZYwEC&pg=PA205&lpg=PA205&sig=nSQ8gNAY1Suydht0UlO4ct8piN0]
*: Conversely, expecting is, as we say, ecstatic.  The ecstasy mentioned here, stepping out itself (ἔκστασις) is to some extent a ''raptus'' [rapture].  [...] And we therefore call these three basic phenomena the '''ecstases''' of temporality.
* '''2002,''' Angela Dalle Vacche, “Unexplored Connections in a New Territory,” in ''The Visual Turn,'' Angela Dalle Vacche ed. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=mrxLuyQ1GjYC&pg=PA21&lpg=PA21&sig=LX0CsBvZonTHzR-w7F2suuDhwck]
*: Eisenstein’s discussion of Serov’s portrait associates '''ekstasis''' with an “expulsion of meaning.” By contrast, the filmmaker’s handling of Vasily Surikov’s large canvas, ''La Bojara Morozova'' (1887), is an example of '''ekstasis''' as expressive conversion from the visual to the acoustic.