==English==
===Etymology===
{{F.}} ''[[embarrasser]]'', to block, to obstruct, from {{Sp.}} ''[[embarazer]]'', either from {{Pg.}} ''[[embaraçar]]'', from ''[[em-#Portuguese|em-]]'', from {{L.}} ''[[im-#Latin|im-]]'', in + ''[[baraça]]'', noose, rope, related to Celtic ''[[barr]]'', tuft; or from {{It.}} ''[[imbarazzare]]'', from ''[[imbarazzo]]'', obstacle, obstruction, from ''[[imbarrare]]'', to block, to bar, from ''[[im-#Italian|im-]]'', in + ''[[barra#Italian|barra]]'', bar, from Vulgar Latin ''[[barra#Vulgar Latin|barra]]'', of unknown origin
<!-- Previous content:
The first known written usage of ''embarrass'' in English was in 1664 by [[wikipedia:Samuel Pepys|Samuel Pepys]] in his diary. The word was derived from the French word ''embarrasser'', "to block," or "obstruct",<sup>[[#references|1]]</sup> whose first recorded usage was by [[wikipedia:Michel de Montaigne|Michel de Montaigne]] in 1580. The French word was derived from the Spanish ''embarazar,'' whose first recorded usage was in 1460 in ''Cancionero de Stúñiga'' (Songbook of Stúñiga) by [[wikipedia:Álvaro de Luna|Álvaro de Luna]].<sup>[[#references|2]]</sup> The Spanish word likely comes from the [[Portuguese language|Portuguese]] ''embaraçar'', which probably is a combination of the [[prefix]] ''em-'' (from Latin ''im-'' for "in-") with ''baraça'' "a noose", or "rope".<sup>[[#references|3]]</sup> ''Baraça'' could be related to the [[wikipedia:Celtic languages|Celtic]] word ''barr'', "tuft". (Celtic people actually settled much of Spain and Portugal beginning in the 700s BC, the second group of people to do so.)<sup>[[#references|4]]</sup> However, it certainly is not derived from it, as the subsitution of ''r'' for ''rr'' in [[wikipedia:Iberian Romance languages|Ibero-Romantic]] languages was not a known occurance. Thus, the word ''baraça'' originated before the Romans began their conquest of the [[wikipedia:Iberian Peninsula|Iberian Peninsula]] in 218 BC.<sup>[[#references|5]]</sup>

However, some say the Spanish word actually came from the Italian ''imbarazzare'', from ''imbarazzo'', "obstacle" or "obstruction". This word came from ''imbarrare'', "to block", or "bar", which is a combination of ''in-'', "in" with ''barra'', "bar" (from the [[Vulgar Latin]] ''barra'', which is of unknown origin).<sup>[[#references|6]]</sup> The problem with this theory is that the first known usage of the word in Italian was by [[wikipedia:Bernardo Davanzati|Bernardo Davanzati]] (1529-1606), long after the word had entered Spanish.<sup>[[#references|7]]</sup>
-->

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-embarrass.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|embarrass||}}

#to [[humiliate]]; to disrupt somebody's [[composure]] or [[comfort]] with acting publicly or freely; to [[disconcert]]; to [[abash]]
#:''The crowd's laughter and jeers '''embarrassed''' him.''

====Synonyms====
*(''humiliate''): [[abash]], [[discomfit]], [[disconcert]], [[humiliate]], [[shame]]

====Translations====
*French: [[embarrasser]]
*Italian: [[imbarazzare]]
*Korean: [[창피 주다]] chahng-pee joo-dah

===References===
#"embarras," ''The Oxford English Dictionary,'' (1989) <http://dictionary.oed.com> [Accessed February 15, 2006].
#Joan Corominas and José Pacual, "embarazar," ''Diccionario crítico etimológico castellano e hispánico,'' (Gredos, 1980) Vol. 2, p. 555-556.
#"embarrass," ''Webster's Third New International Dictionary, Unabridged'' (2002) <http://unabridged.merriam-webster.com> [Accessed February 15, 2006].
#"Iberian," ''Encyclopaedia Britannica,'' <http://www.britannica.com/eb/article-9041884> [Accessed February 15, 2006].
#Corominas, "embarazar".
#"embarrass," ''The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language,'' (2000) <http://www.bartleby.com/61/12/E0101200.html> [Accessed February 15, 2006].
#Corominas, "embarazar".

[[io:embarrass]]
[[zh:embarrass]]