==English==

Dear Sir/Madam

I would like to explain that my name is Saida Perveen and I am living 
in East London.
I married with a Pakistani guy his name is QAMAR ISLAM KHAN. He came in 
the UK in 2000 and lived here until May 2003 on Asylum basis .After 
that he went to Pakistan and I also went to Pakistan with him in May 2003.

We married in Pakistan and applied for settlement visa from Pakistan in 
British High Commission but unfortunately settlement visa was refused. 
I came back to UK and my husband lived in Pakistan. I filed appeal in 
Home Office but appeal was refused and I filed re-appeal against that 
decision. But re-appeal was also refused.

Meanwhile God bestowed me daughter and she got birth in United Kingdom 
in London.

My husband was very very much disappointed with these decisions so he  
was very desperate and willing to come in UK to see his daughter and 
me. Being a husband he has a great love and affection with his daughter 
and me.

Someone like an agent gave him advice and told him that he can go to 
United Kingdom and that agent told him that he would arrange visa and 
everything.

That agent gave him a British passport and told that you can travel to 
UK with this passport. Then Qamar Islam Khan Travel to UK when he 
arrived on the desk of Immigration, Immigration Officer told him your 
passport is stolen passport. Then Immigration Officer gave him to police 
custody and police brought him next day in the court of Magistrate. Before 
Magistrate Qamar Islam Khan said I am guilty in this matter.
The honourable Magistrate refer this case for next hearing in the court 
of Crown Crime Court on 8th September 2006.

I would like to explain that Qamar Islam Khan has some religious 
problems in Pakistan. He don’t want to go back .He is afraid if he will go 
back to Pakistan some of his enemies could kill him in religious matters.

I am her wife and he got one daughter it is not possible to live 
without family. He wants to live permanently with me. His daughter she is now 
two years old she also needs her father’s love and affection. 

In view of all explained above facts I need help in this matter to 
solve my problem and of my husband as well. I shall be very very thankful 
to you.

It is very important to mention here that my husband took this step 
only in the love and affection of his daughter and his wife.

With Best Regards

Yours faithfully

SAIDA PERVEEN
1 KIWI TERRACE
BRIGHTON ROAD,EAST HAM
E6 6AW (Mob: 07908216662)

===Adjective===
#Related to the emergency or to the provision of assistance.<br> Eg; '''emergency vehicles'''.

===See also===
*[[emergency medical sevices]]
*[[fire department]]
*[[police]]
*[[Emergency!]]

[[fr:emergency]]
[[fi:emergency]]
[[zh:emergency]]