{{see|eⁿ'|ëⁿ'}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|ĕn}}, {{IPA|/ɛn/}}, {{SAMPA|/En/}}

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''en'''

# [[English]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#The letter [[N]], [[n]].
#In typesetting, the width of an average letter in a [[font]].

===Prefix===
'''en-'''

<!--requires definition(s)-->

===Preposition===
'''''en'''''<!--italicised-->

#Used in various phrases borrowed from French (see "Derived terms" below).

====Derived terms====
*'''''[[en ami]]'''''
*'''''[[en banc]]'''''
*'''''[[en bloc]]'''''
*'''''[[en brochette]]'''''
*'''''[[en clair]]'''''
*'''''[[en effet]]'''''
*'''''[[en famille]]'''''
*'''''[[en garçon]]'''''
*'''''[[en garde]]'''''
*'''''[[en masse]]'''''
*'''''[[en pantoufles]]'''''
*'''''[[en passant]]'''''
*'''''[[en règle]]'''''
*'''''[[en retard]]'''''
*'''''[[en retraite]]'''''
*'''''[[en revanche]]'''''
*'''''[[en route]]'''''
*'''''[[en secondes noces]]'''''
*'''''[[en suite]]'''''


===Suffix===
'''-en'''

#Added to some adjectives to form intransitive verbs meaning "to become (the adjective)" and transitive verbs meaning "to make (the adjective").
#:''[[redden]]''
#:''[[deafen]]''
<!--This is not a suffix as it is not appended to another word.  Irregular verbs ending in -en are not formed by appending -en to another word, but have different origins.
#Used in forming the [[past participle]] of some [[irregular verb]]s.
#:''broken''-->
#Used to form the plural of some [[irregular noun]]s.
#:''oxen''

----
==Dutch==

[[Category:Dutch conjunctions]]
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɛn/}}

===Conjunction===
'''en'''

# [[and]]
#: ''De oude man en de zee'' &mdash; The old man and the sea.
# [[well]], [[so]]
#: ''En, hoe gaat het ermee?'' &mdash; Well, how're you doing?
#: ''En?'' &mdash; Well?
#: ''En, wat zou dat?'' &mdash; So what?
# (''maths'') [[and]], [[plus]]
#: ''Drie en vier is tien.'' &mdash; Three plus four is ten.<!--this is meant to be a joke-->

====Derived terms====
* [[door en door]]
* [[en dan]]
* [[en of]]
* [[en toch]]
* [[nou en]]

===See also===
* [[dus]]
* [[maar]]
* [[of]]

----

==Esperanto==

===Preposition===
'''en'''
# [[in]]
[[Category:Esperanto prepositions]]
[[Category:Esperanto BRO1]]
----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
IPA: /en/

===Negative verb===
'''en'''

# Auxiliary verb for negation in the first person singular. Would be normally translated as [[no]] or [[don't]] in English. 

===Conjugation===
See [[ei#Finnish|ei]].

===Examples===
:''En nyt osaa keksiä hyvää esimerkkiä.'' "I can't think of a good example right now."

----
==French==

===Pronoun===
# Used as the object of a verb to indicate an indefinite quantity. "''of it''"
===Preposition===
# [[In]].  Used mostly to indicate distance in time or space.

----

==Icelandic==

===Conjunction===
'''en'''

# [[but]]

[[Category:Icelandic conjunctions]]

----
==Ido==

===Preposition===
'''en'''

[[in]]

----

==Japanese==

===Romaji===
[[Category:Romaji]]
'''en''' ([[えん]])

# [[円]]: ''[[circle]] or [[yen]]''
# [[縁]]: ''[[brim]] or [[fate]]''
# [[塩]]: ''[[salt]]'' (chemical)
# [[園]]: ''[[garden]]''

----

==Norwegian==

===Article===
[[Category:Norwegian articles]]
'''en'''
#[[a#Indefinite article]]; masculine gender
===Cardinal number===
''See'' '''[[én]]'''
===Synonyms===
*[[et#Norwegian|et]]
*[[ei#Norwegian|ei]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[in#Latin|in]]''

===Pronunciation===
[en] /en/ 

===Preposition===
'''en'''

#[[in]], [[at]], [[on]]
#:''Estoy en casa'' - I am at home
#:''en esta página'' - in this page
#in (''a time'')
#:''en la antigüedad'' - in antiquity
#:''en 1999'' - in 1999
# in (''a language'')
#:''No conozco esta palabra en francés'' - I don't know this word in French
#:''en todos los idiomas'' - in all languages
#(''used after some verbs and translated by various prepositions in English'')
#:''Pienso en tí'' - I think of you.
#in (''used in various expressions'')
#:''en el sentido'' - in the sense.
#:''en nuestro afán'' - in our eagerness

----

==Swedish==

===Cardinal number===
'''en''' (''in common gender'')

#[[One]].

===Article===
'''en''' (''in common gender'')

#Indefinite article, [[a]], [[an]].

====See also====
*[[ett]]

===Noun===
'''en''' {{c}} (''singular definite'' '''enen''', ''plural indefinite'' '''enar''', ''plural definite'' '''enarna''')

# [[Juniper]].

----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
'''en'''

# [[width]]

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]
[[Category:French prepositions]]

[[de:en]]
[[et:en]]
[[fr:en]]
[[gl:en]]
[[ko:en]]
[[io:en]]
[[it:en]]
[[csb:en]]
[[ku:en]]
[[la:en]]
[[hu:en]]
[[nl:en]]
[[ja:en]]
[[no:en]]
[[pl:en]]
[[pt:en]]
[[sl:en]]
[[fi:en]]
[[sv:en]]
[[vi:en]]
[[zh:en]]