===[[noun]]===
A financial instrument combining [[life assurance]] with [[regular savings]] especially popular in the [[United Kingdom]] as additional [[collateral]] for home buyers' [[mortgages]]. It is customary for the [[assurer]] to calculate the premium amount by dividing the [[assured sum]] by the number of premium payments in the term of the contract, adding around 5% for costs, and adding the cost of [[life assurance]]. 

Each premium that is received by the assurer is split into three unequal parts; one part for the running costs of the policy, one part for the cost of life assurance, and the last part (usually the greatest) which is pooled along with other policy holders' contributions in an investment fund.  

Usually these funds grow faster than the stock market indices because they invest in more than just stocks and corporate bonds, but also in goverment and municipal bonds, business property, residential property and so on. 

Each year the assurer will value the portfolio of assets belonging to this fund, and calculate by how much the fund has grown over the year. Then a proportion of this gain is allocated to each policy (on a weighted basis) in the form of a bonus declaration. A significant portion of the gain is held back, and put into a reserve to protect the fund from lean years where the business cycle is in recession. However, when a policy matures, some of this reserve is paid back in the form of a terminal bonus (in addition to the assured sum and all bonuses declared over the years). 

The use of reserves to smooth out fund profits of the assurer, cause the growth rates of endowment policies (from the assurer's perspective) to be out of synch with the rest of the economy. If an assured no longer wants to pay the regular premiums, the policy can be [[surrendered]] by selling it back to the assurer. However the policy is often worth more if sold to a third party investor instead. There is a lucrative market in such traded endowments.
===Related words===
[[endowment-linked mortage]]