==English==

===Noun===
'''entrepreneur''' ([[entrepreneurs]])

# A person who takes the risk of turning an opportunity into profit.
# A person who takes the risk of managing and operating a business or businesses; term often used: '''a.''' for one who does this for one or more businesses that he or she entirely or largely helps to create; '''b.''' for one who takes on ownership, or significant ownership, of one or more business [[franchise]]s.
# A person who creates one or more new [[nonprofit]] organizations, or one or more units of such organizations, and often has a key part in managing and operating the new entity or entities.  Such a person is sometimes referred to as a ''nonprofit entrepreneur'' or ''not-for-profit entrepreneur'', and occasionally as a ''public entrepreneur''.
# A person who is talented or prolific at developing new programs inside existing organizations. =Intrapreneur i.e. within the organisation
# A person who is talented or prolific at developing new ideas.  Such a person is sometimes referred to as an ''idea entrepreneur''.
# Someone who brings togther all the required resources to carry out a risky, yet controlled venture. The venture is often an enterprise (see definition) that is chosen due to the high reward expected if successful. Entrepreneurs want to have an innovative and highly profitable idea. Good entrepreneurs are not gamblers, the risk involved is well understood and minimised as far as possible.

====Related terms====
* [[entrepreneurship]] (''noun'')
* [[entrepreneurialism]] (''noun'')
* [[entrepreneurial]] (''adjective'')
* [[entrepreneurially]] (''adverb'')

====Translations====
*French: [[Entrepreneur]] (Entrepreneur is a [[loanword]] from the French language)
*German: [[Unternehmer]]
*Finnish: [[yrittäjä]]
*Japanese: [[企業家]] ''kigyōka''
*Swedish: [[företagare]]
*Italian: [[imprenditore]]

[[el:entrepreneur]]
[[fr:entrepreneur]]
[[it:entrepreneur]]
[[pt:entrepreneur]]
[[zh:entrepreneur]]