==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===

From [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] [[équiper]] (meaning ''to [[supply]], [[fit out]]''), originally said of a [[ship]], [[w:Old French|Old French]][[Category:Old French derivations]] esquiper (meaning ''to [[embark]]); of [[w:German language|German]][[Category:German derivations]] origin; compare with [[w:Old High German|Old High German]][[Category:Old High German derivations]] scif, [[w:German language|German]][[Category:German derivations]] schiff, [[w:Icelandic language|Icelandic]][[Category:Icelandic derivations]] skip, [[w:Old English language|Anglo-Saxon]][[Category:Anglo-Saxon derivations]] scip. See ship.

===Transitive verb===
'''equip''' ('''equipping''', '''equipped''')
#To [[furnish]] for [[service]], or against a [[need]] or [[exigency]]; to fit out; to supply with whatever is necessary to efficient action in any way; to provide with arms or an armament, stores, munitions, rigging, etc.; -- said esp. of ships and of troops. Dryden. 
#:''Gave orders for equipping a considerable fleet.'' Ludlow.
#To [[dress up]]; to [[array]]; [[accouter]]. 
#:''The country are led astray in following the town, and equipped in a ridiculous habit, when they fancy themselves in the height of the mode.'' Addison.

===Related terms===
*[[equipment]]
*[[equipage]]


<!-- From Webster:

Equip (Page: 504)

E*quip" (?), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Equipped (?); p. pr. & vb. n. Equipping.] [F. équiper to supply, fit out, orig. said of a ship, OF. esquiper to embark; of German origin; cf. OHG. scif, G. schiff, Icel. skip, AS. scip. See Ship.] 

1. To furnish for service, or against a need or exigency; to fit out; to supply with whatever is necessary to efficient action in any way; to provide with arms or an armament, stores, munitions, rigging, etc.; -- said esp. of ships and of troops. Dryden. 

Gave orders for equipping a considerable fleet. Ludlow.
2. To dress up; to array; accouter. 

The country are led astray in following the town, and equipped in a ridiculous habit, when they fancy themselves in the height of the mode. Addison.

-->

[[io:Equip]]
[[it:equip]]