==English==

{{rank|Hart|social|shown|924|escape|Mr|shot|warm}}

===Etymology===
Anglo-Norman and Old Northern French [[escaper]] ( = Old French [[eschaper]], modern [[échapper]]), from Vulgar Latin ''*excapare'', from Latin [[ex-]] + [[cappa]] ‘cloak’.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/ɪˈskeɪp/}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|escap|ing}}

# ''(intransitive)'' To get free, to free oneself.
#: ''The prisoners '''escaped''' by jumping over a wall.''
# ''(transitive)'' To [[avoid]] (any unpleasant person or thing); to [[elude]], get away from.
#: ''He only got a fine and so '''escaped''' going to jail.''
#: ''The children climbed out of the window to '''escape''' the fire.''
# ''(intransitive)'' To avoid capture; to get away with something, avoid punishment.
#:''Luckily, I '''escaped''' with only a fine.''
# ''(transitive)'' To elude observation or notice; to not be seen or remembered by.
#: ''The name of the hotel '''escapes''' me at present.''
# {{computing}} To prefix a character with a special character (depending on context) to allow a character to pass through without special meaning.
#: ''When using the "bash" shell, you can '''escape''' the ampersand character with a backslash.''
#: ''In your monobook.js file, you can '''escape''' the apostrophe character with a backslash.''
#: ''Brion '''escaped''' the double quote character on Windows by adding a second double quote within the literal.''
# {{computing}} to [[halt]] a [[program]] or [[command]] by pressing a [[key]] (such as the [[Esc key]]) or [[combination]] of keys

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
*[[escapee]]
*[[escapement]]
*[[escapism]]
*[[escapist]]
*[[escapologist]]
{{mid2}}
*[[escapology]]
*[[escape sequence]]
*[[fire escape]]
*[[lucky escape]]
*[[make an escape]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*[[Chemehuevi]]: [[na-'wi-cipi-nkɨ]]
*Dutch: [[ontsnappen]]
*Finnish: [[paeta]] (1), [[välttyä]] (2)
*French: [[échapper]] (1), [[éviter]] (2)
*Italian: [[scappare]] (1), [[evitare]] (2)
{{mid}}
*Kurdish: [[revîn]] (1), [[bazdan]] (1), [[filitîn]] (2)
*Slovak: [[utiecť]] (1), [[vyhnúť sa]] (2)
*Slovene: [[pobegniti]], [[zbežati]] (1)
*Spanish: [[fugarse]]
*Swedish: [[fly]] (1), [[undvika]], [[undfly]] (2)
*Telugu: [[తప్పించుకొను]] (tappiMchukonu)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# The act of leaving a dangerous or unpleasant situation.
#: ''The prisoners made their escape by digging a tunnel''
# A key on most modern computer keyboards, sometimes abbreviated [[Esc]], and typically programmed to cancel some current operation.
# ''programming:'' The [[ASCII]] character represented by 27 (decimal) or 1B ([[hexadecimal]].)
#: ''You forgot to insert an '''escape''' in the datastream.''

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[pako]] (1)
*Kurdish: [[rev]] (1), [[bazdan]] (1), [[filitîn]] (2)
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[pobeg]] {{m}} (1)
*Swedish: [[flykt]] {{c}} (1)
{{bottom}}

[[cy:escape]]
[[fa:escape]]
[[fr:escape]]
[[io:escape]]
[[it:escape]]
[[hu:escape]]
[[fi:escape]]
[[vi:escape]]
[[zh:escape]]