==English==
===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''ethics'''
# the [[philosophy]] of [[morality]]
# the [[standard]]s that govern the [[conduct]] of a person; especially a member of a [[profession]]
===Synonyms===
*[[moral philosophy]]

The field of ethics, also called moral philosophy, involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong behavior. Philosophers today usually divide ethical theories into three general subject areas: metaethics, normative ethics, and applied ethics.

'Metaethics' investigates where our ethical principles come from, and what they mean. Are they merely social inventions? Do they involve more than expressions of our individual emotions? Metaethical answers to these questions focus on the issues of universal truths, the will of God, the role of reason in ethical judgments, and the meaning of ethical terms themselves. 

'Normative' ethics takes on a more practical task, which is to arrive at moral standards that regulate right and wrong conduct. This may involve articulating the good habits that we should acquire, the duties that we should follow, or the consequences of our behavior on others. 

'Applied' ethics involves examining specific controversial issues, such as abortion, infanticide, animal rights, environmental concerns, homosexuality, capital punishment, or nuclear war. By using the conceptual tools of metaethics and normative ethics, discussions in applied ethics try to resolve these controversial issues: 

For example, the issue of abortion is an applied ethical topic since it involves a specific type of controversial behavior. But it also depends on more general normative principles, such as the right of self-rule and the right to life, which are litmus tests for determining the morality of that procedure. The issue also rests on metaethical issues such as, "where do rights come from?" and "what kind of beings have rights?" The lines of distinction between metaethics, normative ethics, and applied ethics are often blurry. 

source reference: www.onelook.com

===Derived terms===
*[[bioethics]]
*[[metaethics]]
*[[situation ethics]]

[[fr:ethics]]
[[io:ethics]]
[[it:ethics]]
[[hu:ethics]]
[[zh:ethics]]