{{Wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
From Old French '''ethimologie''' < Latin '''[[etymologia]]''' < Greek '''[[ετυμολογία]]''', made from Greek '''[[έτυμον]]''' (true sense), neuter of '''[[έτυμος]]''' (real, true, actual) + Greek '''[[λόγος]]''' (word, speech, discourse) < Proto-Indo-European base '''[[*leg-]]''' (to collect).

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: ĕt"ə-mŏl'ə-jē
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˌetɪˈmɒlədʒɪ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /<tt>%etI"mQl@dZI</tt>/

===Noun===
'''etymology''' (plural: '''etymologies''')

# The study of the origin of words. The word may be used to describe the science dealing with the origin of words.
# The origin of a word. 
#:*''The '''etymology''' of this word may be found above, under '''etymology'''.''
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''a. 1571''' The ''etymology'' which the Dorians give, seems indeed more probable, than that of the Athenians; for how can Comodein, be made of the word Comazein. &mdash; Lodovico Castelvetro, ''Aristotle's Art of Poetry'', page 28.
#:*'''1583''' Amonge all other Artes, forgett not the Mathematikes. for the ''Etymologie'' of their name, exhortes you to learne them. &mdash; Brian Melbancke, ''Philotimus'' (1583), page 98.
#:*'''1693''' But in former times, the Name of Satire was given to Poems, which were compos'd of several sorts of Verses; such as were made by Ennius, and Pacuvius; more fully expressing the ''Etymology'' of the word Satire, from Satura, which we have observ'd &mdash; John Dryde, ''The Satires of Decimus Junius Juvenalis'', page 26.

====Related terms====
*[[etymological]]
*[[etymologist]]
*[[etymon]]
*[[folk etymology]]

====Translations====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*[[Afrikaans]]: [[etimologie]]
*Arabic: [[اشتقاق|اِشْتِقَاق]] (ištiqáːq) ''m''
*[[Basque]]: [[etimologia]]
*Bulgarian: [[етимология]] (etimológija) ''f''
*[[Catalan]]: [[etimologia]]
*Chinese: [[语源]] (yǔ yuán), [[语源学]] (yǔ yuán xué)
*Croatian: [[etimologija]] ''f''
*Czech: [[etymologie]]
*Danish: [[etymologi]]
*Dutch: [[etymologie]] ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[etimologio]]
*Finnish: [[etymologia]]
*French: [[étymologie]] ''f''
*German: [[Etymologie]] ''f''
*Greek: [[ετυμολογία]] (etymología) ''f''
*Hebrew: [[אטימולוגיה]] (etimologiah) ''f''
*Hungarian: [[szófejtés]]
*Indonesian: [[etimologi]]
*Italian: [[etimologia]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Japanese: [[語源]] ([[ごげん]], gógen), [[語源学]] ([[ごげんがく]], gogengakú)
*Korean: [[어원]] ([[語源]], eoweon), [[어원학]] (eoweonhak)
*Latin: [[etymologia]] ''f''
*[[Persian]]: [[ریشه‌شناسی]] (riše-šenasi)
*Polish: [[źródłosłów]] ''m'', [[etymologia]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[etimologia]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[etimologie]] ''f''
*[[Romanica]]: [[etymologia]] ''f''
*Russian: [[этимология]] (etimológija) ''f''
*Serbian: [[етимологија]] (etimologija) ''f''
*Spanish: [[etimología]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[etymologi]]
*Thai: [[นิรุกติศาสตร์]] (niruktisàat)
*Turkish: [[etimoloji]], [[köktenbilim]]
*Ukrainian: [[етимологія]] (etimológija) ''f''
*Vietnamese: [[từ nguyên từ nguyên học]]
*[[Walloon]]: [[etimolodjeye]]
|}
|}

====See also====
*[[w:etymology|Wikipedia article on etymology]]

[[it:etymology]]
[[nl:etymology]]