== English ==
===Adjective===

# Flat and level.
#: ''Clear out those rocks.  The surface must be even.''
# Without great variation; fair.
#: ''Despite her fear, she spoke in an even voice.''
#: ''The distribution of food must be even.''
# (''Mathematics'') [[Evenly divisible]] by two.
#: ''Four, fourteen and forty are even numbers.''

==== Synonyms ====
*(1): [[flat]], [[level]], [[uniform]]

==== Antonyms ====
*(1): [[uneven]]
*(3): [[odd]]

==== Translations ====
*Finnish: [[parillinen]] (3)
*French: [[pair#French|pair]] (3)
*Italian: [[pari]] (3)
*Swedish: [[jämn]] (1,2,3), [[slät]] (1), [[stadig]] (2) (''stadig röst = even voice'')
*German: [[gerade]] (3)

=== Adverb ===
# At least
#: ''Even a blind squirrel finds an acorn sometimes.''
#: ''Did you even make it through the front door?''
# Used as an intensifier in a context indicating progression. <!-- help? -->
#: ''I didn't even make it through the front door before someone stopped me.''
#: ''That was before I was even born.''

==== Translations ====
*French: [[même]] (1)
*Italian: [[anche]] (1)
*Swedish: [[även]] (1), [[ens]] (2) (''Jag hann inte ''ens'' till dörren = I didn't ''even'' make it to the door'')

=== Verb ===
# To cause to be even.
#: ''We need to even this playing field.  The west goal is too low.''

==== Synonyms ====
*[[flatten]]
*[[level]]

====Translations====
*Swedish: [[jämna]], [[jämna ut]], [[plana ut]], [[platta till]]

=== Noun ===
# (''archaic'') The evening of the day.

==== Synonyms ====
*[[e'en]] (''archaic'')
*[[evening]]

=== Related terms ===
*[[even-handed]]
*[[evenly]]
*[[even out]]
*[[even so]]
*[[evensong]]
*[[even though]]
*[[not even]]
*[[uneven]]