==English==

===Adjective===
'''everlasting'''

# Lasting or enduring forever; exsisting or continuing without end; immortal; eternal. "The '''Everlasting''' God." Gen. xx1. 33.
# Continuing indefinitely, or during a long period; perpetual; sometimes used, colloquially, as a strong intensive; as, this everlasting nonsence.
#: ''I will give to thee, and to thy seed after thee . . . the land of Canaan, for an '''everlasting''' possession.'' Gen xvii. 8.
#: ''And heard thy '''everlasting''' yawn confess The pains and penalties of idleness.'' -Pope.

====Synonyms====
*[[eternal]]; [[immortal]], [[interminable]]; [[endless]]; [[never-ending]]; [[infinite]]; [[unceasing]]; [[uninterrupted]]; [[continual]]; [[unintermitted]]; [[incessant]].

====Translations====
;Lasting or enduring forever (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ikuinen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Continuing indefinitely (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ikuinen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Usage notes====
Everlasting, Eternal. Eternal denotes (when taken strictly) without beginning or end of duration; everlasting is sometimes used in our version of the Scriptures in the sense of eternal, but in modern usage is confined to the future, and implies no intermission as well as no end.
:''Whether we shall meet again I know not; Therefore our '''everlasting''' farewell take; Forever, and forever farewell, Cassius.'' -[[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]].

====Derived terms====
*[[everlasting flower]].
*[[everlasting pea]] ''an ornamental plant (Lathyrus latifolius) related to the pea; -- so called because it is perennial.''

{{webster}}

[[fa:everlasting]]
[[fr:everlasting]]
[[io:everlasting]]
[[it:everlasting]]
[[hu:everlasting]]
[[vi:everlasting]]
[[zh:everlasting]]