==English==
===Etymology===
From ''[[ever]]'' + ''[[green]]''.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/ˈɛvəgri:n/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of plants (especially trees) - having leaves that do not turn brown and fall in [[autumn]] or winter.
#*'''1902:''' Henry Van Dyke, ''The Blue Flower'' [http://etext.lib.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=text&offset=287397704&textreg=2&query=+evergreen&id=DykBlue]
#*:...these three little creeping vines put forth their hands with joy, and spread over rock and hillock and twisted tree-root and mouldering log, in cloaks and scarves and wreaths of tiny '''evergreen''', glossy leaves. 
# Continually [[fresh]] or self-renewing; often used metaphorically.
# (''Broadcasting'') Suitable for transmission at any time; not urgent or time-dependent.
#:'''2001''': Another change in the news was emphasis on “'''evergreen'''” features involving attractive children or animals, parades or fireworks, as well as local developments — Christopher H Sterling, John M Kittross, ''Stay Tuned'' (Lawrence Erlbaum Associates 2001, p. 654)

====Translations====
'''of plants'''
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[sempre-verde]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[věčnězelený]], [[stálezelený]]  

====Antonyms====
*(1) [[deciduous]] 

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# A [[tree]] or [[shrub]] that does not drop its [[leaves]] or [[needle]]s seasonally.
# {{colloquial}} More specifically, a [[conifer]] tree (e.g. [[pine]], [[fir]], [[cedar]].)
#*'''1858:''' Henry David Thorea, ''The Maine Woods'' [http://etext.lib.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=text&offset=618074587&textreg=1&query=+evergreen&id=ThoMain]
#*:The spruce and fir trees crowded to the track on each side to welcome us, the arbor- vitae, with its changing leaves, prompted us to make haste, and the sight of the canoe-birch gave us spirits to do so. Sometimes an '''evergreen''' just fallen lay across the track with its rich burden of cones, looking, still, fuller of life than our trees in the most favorable positions.
#*'''1958:''' Chuck Berry, ''Johnny B. Goode'' 
#*:Deep down in Louisiana, close to New Orleans,
#*:Way back up in the woods among the '''evergreens''',
#*:There stood a log cabin made of earth and wood
#*:Where lived a country boy named Johnny B. Goode
# {{colloquial}} A television news story that can be shown at any time there is available space since it is not time sensitive.

====Translations====
'''tree or shrub'''
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[sempre-verde]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

==Swedish==
===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-r-c|2=evergreene}}
#A song or other piece of music (in particular [[popular music]]) which proves to be constantly popular during an extended period of time, usually several decades.

[[it:evergreen]]
[[vi:evergreen]]
[[zh:evergreen]]