==English==
===Noun===
'''Evolution'''
#The process of evolving
#''Biology'' - Change in the genetic composition of a population in successive generations.
#''Mathematics'' - The extraction of a root of a quantity.

'''Evolution''' is any [[emergence|emergent]] [[process]] of growth or development that entails change. The word stems from the [[Latin]] ''evolutio'' meaning "unfolding" and before the late [[19th century]] was confined to referring to goal-directed, pre-programmed processes such as embryological development. A pre-programmed task, as in a military maneuver, using this definition, may be termed an "evolution."  One can also speak of [[stellar evolution]], [[chemical evolution]], [[cultural evolution]], [[spiritual evolution]] or the [[evolution of an idea]]. Other kinds of evolution include [[evolutionary algorithm]]s (which include [[genetic algorithm]]s) which attempt to mimic processes similar to biological evolution in a [[computer program]], most frequently as an [[optimization]] technique and as an experimental framework for the computational [[scientific modeling|modelling]] of evolution.

==Modern usage==

In the 19th century the word "evolution" was identified with improvement.  It was clear to European thinkers at that time &ndash; in the wake of the Enlightenment and the French Revolution &ndash; that human societies evolved; many people have claimed the same about the evolution of biological species. In the 20th century, most social scientists came to reject the strict identification of social and cultural change with improvement (see also [[social evolution]] and [[cultural evolution]]); most interpretations of [[Charles Darwin|Darwin's]] account of evolution similarly argue against identifying biological changes with improvement.  

Since the [[19th century]] "evolution" is generally used in reference to ''[[biology|biological]] evolution'', the development of the different varieties of living things over generations. Often it is shorthand for the modern theory of evolution of [[species]] based upon [[Charles Darwin|Darwin's]] idea of [[natural selection]]. 


===Translations===
*{{ca}} [1,2] [[evolució]] ''f'' [[:ca:evolució|(ca)]] 
*{{eo}} [1,2] [[evoluo]] 
*{{fr}} [1,2] [[évolution]] ''f'' [[:fr:évolution|(fr)]] 
*{{de}} [1,2] [[Evolution]] ''f'' [[:de:Evolution|(de)]] 
*{{es}} [1,2] [[evolución]] ''f'' [[:es:evolución|(es)]] 
*{{fi}} [1,2] [[evoluutio]] ''f'' [[:fi:evoluutio|(fi)]]
*{{mt}} [1,2] [[evoluzzjoni]] ''f''

===Related Terms===
[[Evolve]]

[[de:evolution]]
[[it:evolution]]
[[pl:evolution]]