==English==
===Pronunciation===

\Ex*haust"\

===Transitive verb===
'''to exhaust'''  (''exhausted'', ''exhausting'')
# To draw or let out wholly; to drain off completely; as, to exhaust the water of a well; the moisture of the earth is exhausted by evaporation.
# To empty by drawing or letting out the contents; as, to exhaust a well, or a treasury.
# To drain, metaphorically; to use or expend wholly, or till the supply comes to an end; to deprive wholly of strength; to use up; to weary or tire out; to wear out; as, to exhaust one's strength, patience, or resources.
#:''A decrepit, exhausted old man at fifty-five. --Motley.''
# To bring out or develop completely; to discuss thoroughly; as, to exhaust a subject.
#{{chemistry}} To subject to the action of various solvents in order to remove all soluble substances or extractives; as, to exhaust a drug successively with water, alcohol, and ether.

====Synonyms====
* [[spend]], [[consume]], [[tire out]], [[weary]]

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[ehdyttää]] (1,2), [[uuvuttaa]] (3), [[näännyttää]] (3)

===Adjective===
'''exhaust'''
# Drained; exhausted; having expended or lost its energy.
# Pertaining to steam, air, gas, etc., that is released from the cylinder of an engine after having preformed its work.

===Noun===
'''exhaust'''
# System consisting of the parts of an engine through which burned gases or steam are discharged 
# The steam let out of a cylinder after it has done its work there.
# The foul air let out of a room through a register or pipe provided for the purpose.
# An exhaust pipe, especially on a motor vehicle.

====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[uitlaatpijp]] ''f'' (1), [[uitlaat]] ''m'' (1,2,3)
*Finnish: [[pakokaasu]] (2,3), [[pakoputki]] (4)
*[[Spanish]]: [[tubo de escape]] ''m'' (1)

===Derived terms===
*[[exhaust draught]]
*[[exhaust fan]]
*[[exhaustion]]
*[[exhaust nozzle]]
*[[exhaust pipe]]
*[[exhaust port]]
*[[exhaust purifier]]
*[[exhaust steam]]
*[[exhaust valve]]

[[io:Exhaust]]
[[it:exhaust]]
[[ru:Exhaust]]