==English==

{{rank|glass|silver|winter|962|expect|nation|legal|spread}}

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[expectatum]]'' (to look out for, [[await]], expect), ''[[ex#Latin|ex]]'' (out) + ''[[spectare]]'' (to look at). Confer ''[[spectacle]]''.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|expect|expects|expected|expecting}}
#To [[look for]] (mentally); to look forward to, as to something that is believed to be about to happen or come; to have a previous [[apprehension]] of, whether of good or evil; to look for with some confidence; to [[anticipate]]; -- often followed by an infinitive, sometimes by a clause (with, or without, that); as I expect to receive wages; I expect that the troops will be defeated.
#*Good: I will expect you. ''[[Shakespeare]]''
#*Expecting thy reply. ''[[Shakespeare]]''
#*The Somersetshire or yellow regiment ... was expected to arrive on the following day. ''[[Macaulay]]''.
# to [[consider]] [[obligatory]] or [[required]]; 
# to consider reasonably [[due]]; 
#:''You are expected to get the task done by the end of next week.''
#(''Obsolete'') To [[wait]] for; to [[await]].
#*Let's in, and there expect their coming. ''[[Shakespeare]]''

====Usage notes====
''Expect'' is a mental act and has aways a reference to the future, to some coming event; as a person expects to die, or he expects to survive. ''[[think|Think]]'' and ''[[believe]]'' have reference to the past and present, as well as to the future; as I think the mail has arrived; I believe he came home yesterday, that he is he is at home now. There is a not uncommon use of ''expect'', which is a confusion of the two; as, I expect the mail has arrived; I expect he is at home. This misuse should be avoided. ''[[await|Await]]'' is a physical or moral act. We await that which, when it comes, will affect us personally. We expect what may, or may not, interest us personally. See ''[[anticipate]]''.

====Synonyms====
*[[anticipate]]
*[[look for]]
*[[await]]
*[[hope]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[erwarten]] (1,2,3)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[expectation]] ''noun''
*[[expected]] ''adjective''
*[[expecting]] ''adjective''<!-- pregnancy -->
*[[unexpected]]


{{webster}}

[[fr:expect]]
[[io:expect]]
[[it:expect]]
[[ru:expect]]
[[zh:expect]]