==English==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[extinctus]]'', past participle of ''[[extinguere]]'', corresponding to ''[[ex-]]'' + ''[[stinguere]]'' ‘quench’.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ɪkˈstɪŋkt/, /ɛkˈstɪŋkt/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪŋkt|-ɪŋkt]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}
'''User Friendly Definition''': A species of plant or animal that has died out completely.

'''Examples''': Carolina parakeet, passenger pigeon, dodo bird

'''Tennessee Grade Level and Content Area''': 3 - Life Science

'''Tennessee Curriculum Framework Connection''': Life Science Content Standard: 2.0 Interactions Between Living Things and Their Environment The student will investigate how living things interact with one another and with non-living elements of their environment.

Learning Expectations 2.3 Examine interrelationships among plants, animals, and their environment. 2.4 Recognize that the environment and the organisms that live in it can be affected by pollution.

Performance Indicators State 3.2.spi.1. distinguish between living and non-living things in an illustration 3.2.spi.4. identify the environment that has been impacted by pollutants.

Performance Indicators Teacher 3.2.tpi.3. associate an organism with its environment. 3.2.tpi.6. explain how organisms meet their survival needs. 3.2.tpi.8. investigate what can happen to an organism when there is an environmental change due to pollution.

'''Embedded Learning Context:''': A type of animal can become extinct if the places where they live change too much or too quickly for them to adapt.

'''Derived Terms:''' Extinction: occurs when living examples of a plant or animal no longer exist.

# (''Vulcanology'') No longer erupting.
#:''Most of the volcanos on this island are now '''extinct'''.''
# No longer used; obsolete, discontinued.
#:''Luckily, such ideas about race are '''extinct''' in current sociological theory.''
# No longer in existence; having died out.
#:''The dinosaurs have been '''extinct''' for millions of years.''

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Finnish: [[sukupuuttoon kuollut]]
*German: [[aussterben|ausgestorben]]

[[fi:extinct]]
[[zh:extinct]]