==English==

===Etymology===
{{L.}} ''[[ex]]'', out, + ''[[tractus]]'', a dragging, a pulling; hence something that has been pulled or dragged.

===Pronunciation===
*(''noun''): ĕks'trăkt, /ˈɛkstrækt/, /<tt>"Ekstr{kt</tt>/
*(''verb''): ĭkstrăkt', /ɪksˈtrækt/, /<tt>Iks"tr{kt</tt>/
[[Category:English heteronyms]]
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ækt|-ækt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
#That which is extracted or drawn out.
#A portion of a book or document, separately transcribed; a citation; a quotation.
#A decoction, solution, or infusion made by drawing out from any substance that which gives it its essential and characteristic virtue; essence; as, extract of beef; extract of dandelion; also, any substance so extracted, and characteristic of that from which it is obtained; as, quinine is the most important extract of Peruvian bark.
#A solid preparation obtained by evaporating a solution of a drug, etc., or the fresh juice of a plant; -- distinguished from an [[abstract]].
#A peculiar principle once erroneously supposed to form the basis of all vegetable extracts; -- called also the extractive principle.
#Extraction; descent.
#A draught or copy of writing; certified copy of the proceedings in an action and the judgement therein, with an order for execution.

====Translations====
;something extracted
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ote]], [[katkelma]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a portion of a document
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ote]], [[katkelma]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;solution made by drawing out from a substance
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[uutos]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a solid preparation obtained by evaporating a solution of a drug
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a peculiar principle once erroneously supposed to form the basis of all vegetable extracts
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;extraction, descent
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a draught or copy of writing
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ote]], [[katkelma]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[extracto]] {{m}}, [[pasaje]] {{m}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To draw out or forth; to pull out; to remove forcibly from a fixed position, as by traction or suction, etc.; as, to extract a tooth from its socket, a stump from the earth, a splinter from the finger.
#To withdraw by expression, distillation, or other mechanical or chemical process; as, to extract an essence.  Cf. Abstract, v. t., 6.
#To take by selection; to choose out; to cite or quote, as a passage from a book.
#{{arithmetic}} To determine (a root of a number).
#:''to extract the third root of 27''

====Translations====
;to draw out
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[vetää]] [[ulos]]
*Italian: [[cavare]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to withdraw in process
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[uuttaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to take by selection
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[poimia]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to determine
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[extaer]]

{{webster}}

[[fr:extract]]
[[io:extract]]
[[it:extract]]
[[nl:extract]]
[[ta:extract]]
[[vi:extract]]
[[zh:extract]]