{{cleanup}}
==Sanskrit==
===Preposition===
'''अपि''' (api)
#(prep. w. loc.) close by or to, within, before; adv. further, also, too; even (w. {na} = Lat. quidem); at least, however, but (between words, clauses and sentences, or after, r. before an emphasized word). 
#after numerals = all
:all the four castes, etc.
#at the beginning of a sent. it is a particle of interrogation

===Adfix===
#with an optative it expresses hope, fear, or desire. -- {api ca} or {cApi} further, moreover. {api--api} (or {ca}) as well--as. {api ca--ja cApi} rather than. {ye'pi--te'pi} they too--who. {yadyapi} however, although. {tathApi} even so, nevertheless. 
#Converts an interrog. into an indefinite

*Cappeller, Carl  ''[http://www.uni-koeln.de/phil-fak/indologie/tamil/cap_search.html A Sanskrit-English dictionary]''  Bostin, Ginn and Co., 1891.

<!--Here's the full Capeller entry:
api (prep. w. loc., or --- in verbs & nouns) close by or to, within, before; adv. further, also, too; even (w. {na} = Lat. quidem); at least, however, but (between words, clauses and sentences, or after, r. before an emphasized word). Converts an interrog. into an indefinite; after numerals = all; at the beginning of a sent. it is a particle of interrogation, with an optat. it expresses hope, fear, or desire. -- {api ca} or {cApi} further, moreover. {api--api} (or {ca}) as well--as. {api ca--ja cApi} rather than. {ye'pi--te'pi} they too--who. {yadyapi} however, although. {tathApi} even so, nevertheless. 

I don't know what all the abbreviations mean, so I couldn't do a proper entry, and I didn't want to lead it astray. The Cologne lexicon gives similar and additional meanings, but even more difficult to parse. -->