{{zh-forms|[[倾]][[国]]|[[傾國]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
* '''111:''' [[w:Ban Gu|Ban Gu]], ''[[w:Book of Han|Book of Han]], Chapter 67, Biographies of the emperor's maternal relatives'' ([[:zh:source:汉书|汉书]]外戚传第六十七)
*: [[孝武]][[李夫人]]，[[本]][[以]][[倡]][[进]]。 [[初]]，[[夫人]][[兄]][[李延年|延年]][[性]][[知]][[音]]，[[善]][[歌舞]]，[[汉武帝|武帝]][[爱]][[之]]。 [[每]][[为]][[新]][[声]][[变]][[曲]]，[[闻]][[者]][[莫]][[不]][[感动]]。 [[李延年|延年]][[侍]][[上]][[起]][[舞]]，[[歌]][[曰]]：「[[北方]][[有]][[佳人]]，[[绝世]][[而]][[独立]]，[[一]][[顾]][[倾]][[人]][[城]]，[[再]][[顾]][[倾]][[人]][[国]]。 [[宁]][[不知]][[倾]][[城]][[与]]'''倾国'''，[[佳人]][[难]][[再]][[得]]！」 [[上]][[叹息]][[曰]]：「[[善]]！ [[世]][[岂]][[有]][[此]][[人]][[乎]]？」 [[平阳]][[主因]][[言]][[李延年|延年]][[有]][[女]][[弟]]，[[上]][[乃]][[召见]][[之]]，[[实]][[妙丽]][[善]][[舞]]。 [[由]][[是]][[得]][[幸]]，[[生]][[一]][[男]]，[[是]][[为]][[昌邑哀王]]。
*:: ''Consort Li, concubine to the [[w:Emperor Wu of Han|Emperor Wu of Han]], was originally a dancing performer.   Her brother [[w:Li Yannian|Yannian]] was a gifted musician and dancer, beloved by the emperor.   Every time he composed something new, it never failed to move those listening to it.   One day, [[w:Li Yannian|Yannian]] did a dance and sang, "There is a beauty in the north, who stands out among the generations.   One look will topple the men of the city.   A second look will topple the men of the country.   I would rather not know about toppled cities and '''toppled countries''', because a beauty of this caliber may not come around again! "  His majesty sighed and said, "Wow!  Can there really be such a person in this world? "  Whereupon Pingyang mentioned that [[w:Li Yannian|Yannian]] had a sister.   His majesty summoned her, and she was indeed a sight to behold, and a good dancer.   As a result, she received the emperor's favor, and bore him a son; this was Prince Ai of Changyi.'' (Wiktionary translation)

===Noun===
{{cmn-noun|s|pin=qīngguó|pint=qing1guo2|tra=傾國|sim=倾国|rs=人08}}

# (''archaic'') a drop-dead gorgeous woman; a beauty who could lay low an empire
#* '''806:''' [[w:Bai Juyi|Bai Juyi]], ''[[wikisource:Song of Everlasting Regret|Song of Everlasting Regret]]''
#: [[汉]][[皇]][[重]][[色]][[思]]'''倾国'''
#:: ''A certain emperor of the [[w:Han dynasty|Han dynasty]]<ref>A reference to the [[w:Emperor Xuanzong of Tang|Emperor Xuanzong of Tang]], whose relationship to [[w:Yang Guifei|Yang Guifei]] brought to mind the [[w:Emperor Wu of Han|Emperor Wu of Han]]'s relationship to his concubine, Consort Li.  Bai Juyi would have considered it unpoetic to refer to his subject directly.</ref> placed a premium on his dalliances, and longed for '''a beauty who could lay low an empire'''.''

<references />

====Usage notes====
*The story encapsulated by this word also figures prominently in the movie [[w:House of Flying Daggers|House of Flying Daggers]].