The word '''über''' comes from the German language. During the late 1990's, ''über'' became a hip, trendy synonym for ''super''; i.e. übercool - supercool. In English, the word is almost exclusively used as a prefix (as opposed to a separate word).

In German, ''über'' is used as a [[prefix]] as well as a separate word. In the latter case, it may or may not be a [[preposition]], depending on context. ''Über'' has several different meanings, eg. ''about'' or ''over'' and ''above''. More relevant here, ''über'' also translates to ''superior''. The actual translation depends on  context; ''superior'' frequently is a correct translation from German when ''über'' is a prefix in the German text. One example would be the term ''Übermensch'', which translates to ''superior human'' or ''superman''. It is assumed that it is via this translation that the word ''über'' entered the English vocabulary.

NB: The German word ''Übermensch'', depending on context, can very easily have a rather sinister connotation, because the idea of a super human was integral to the [[Nazi]] ideology of a ''"[[master race]]"''. While it appears that the word was originally coined by [[Wikipedia:Friedrich Nietzsche|Friedrich Nietzsche]], unrelated to Nazi ideology, both the term and Nietzsche's works were later attempted to be "reinterpreted", or rather grossly misrepresented (some would say intellectually hijacked) by the Nazis, to fit their ideological agenda. It is thus advisable to excercise extreme diligence and caution when using the term ''Übermensch''. It could still have a neutral meaning (eg. in philosophical texts), but it frequently won't (eg. in heated political debate about [[genetic engineering]], etc.). The reverse also applies: In contemporary Germany, the word ''superman'' and indeed the entire idea of any super human may come across as somewhat tainted and/or suspicious. This entire sensitive issue does not however appear to have gotten carried forward to English language use of the word ''über'' itself; there doesn't appear to be a Nazi connection (except for the fact that ''über'' is a [[loanword]] from German).