==Russian==
===Pronunciation===
/svʲet/

===Noun===
'''свет''' {{m}} ''(normally singular only)''

# [[light]]
#: [[неоновый|нео́новый]] свет — ''[[neon]] light''
#: [[мягкий|мя́гкий]] свет — ''[[soft]] light''
#: [[дневной|дневно́й]] свет — ''[[daylight]]''
#: [[солнечный|со́лнечный]] свет — ''[[sunshine]]'', ''[[sunlight]]''
#: [[яркий|я́ркий]] свет — ''[[bright]] light''
#: [[тусклый|ту́склый]] свет — ''[[dim]] light'', ''[[wan]] light''
#: [[пучок|пучо́к]] све́та — ''[[beam]] of light''
#: [[ско́рость]] све́та — ''[[speed]] of light''
#: [[при]] све́те — ''[[by]] [[the]] light [[of]]''
#: [[тушить|туши́ть]] свет — ''[[turn]] [[off]] the light''
#:: туши свет, [[бросать|броса́й]] [[граната|грана́ту]]! — ''(literally) turn off the light and fire a grenade!'' (about something very ...)
# [[day]]
# [[radiance]]
# [[electricity]] (colloquial)
#: [[опять|Опя́ть]] [[нет]] све́та! — ''There’s no electricity again!''

====Antonyms====
*[[темнота]]
*[[тьма]]
*[[мрак]]
*[[тень]]

===Related terms===
*[[светило]]
*[[светить]]
*[[светлый]]
*[[световой]]
*[[светофор]]
*[[свеча]]

===Declension===
{| border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0"
!
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"| singular
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"| plural
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| nom.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|свет}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| gen.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|све́та,<br>све́ту}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| dat.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|све́ту}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|  acc.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|свет}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| inst.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|све́том}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| prep.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|о све́те, на свету́}}
| align="center"|-
|}

===Noun===
'''свет''' {{m}} ''(normally singular only)''

# [[world]], [[earth]], [[universe]]: 
#:[[часть|ча́сти]] све́та — ''parts of the world''
#:[[вокруг|вокру́г]] све́та — ''round the world''
#:[[конец|коне́ц]] све́та — ''[[doomsday]], [[the]] [[end]] [[of]] the world, [[Apocalypse]]''
#:[[весь]] свет, [[целый|це́лый]] свет — ''[[the]] [[whole]] world''
#::[[я]] [[объездить|объе́здил]] [[целый|це́лый]] свет, [[но]] [[ты|тебя́]] [[красивый|краси́вей]] [[нет]] {{poetic}} — ''I traveled all over the whole world, but didn't find a woman beautiful more than you''
#:[[скитаться|скита́ться]] [[по]] [[белый|бе́лу]] све́ту {{colloquial}} — ''to [[knock]] [[about]] the world''
#:[[ни]] [[за]] [[что]] [[на]] све́те! — ''not for the world!''
#:[[больше|бо́льше]] [[всего|всего́]] [[на]] све́те — ''[[above]] [[all]], above [[everything]]''
#::[[я]] [[люби́ть|люблю]] [[ты|тебя́]] больше всего на свете! — ''[[I]] [[love]] [[you]] [[more]] [[than]] everything''
#:свет [[клин|кли́ном]] [[не]] [[сойтись|сошёлся]] ''(saying)'' — ''the world is large enough'', ''there are other fish in the sea''
#:[[ругать|руга́ть]] [[на]] [[чем|чём]] свет [[стоять|стои́т]] — ''to swear like nothing on earth'', ''swear like hell'', ''curse blue''
#:[[тот]] свет — ''the [[next]] world''
#::[[отправиться|отпра́виться]] на тот свет — ''to go to the next world'', ''to [[die]]''
#:[[появиться|появи́ться]] на свет — ''to be [[born]]'', ''to come into the world''
#:[[производить|произвести]] на свет — ''to [[give]] [[birth]]''
#:[[выпустить|вы́пустить]] в свет — ''to publish'', ''to bring out''
#:[[увидеть|уви́деть]] свет — ''to be born'' (''about human''), ''to be published'' (''about print'')
#:[[белый|бе́лый]] свет — ''this world'', ''the world''
# [[society]], [[people]], [[aristocracy]]
#:[[высший]] свет ([[общества]]) — ''high life''

===Synonyms===
'''world'''
*[[мир]]
*[[Земля]] ''and'' [[земля]]

'''universe'''
*[[Вселенная]]

'''society'''
*[[аристократия]]
*[[знать]]

===Declension===
{| border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0"
!
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"| singular
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"| plural
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| nom.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|свет}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| gen.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|све́та,<br>све́ту}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| dat.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|све́ту}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|  acc.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|свет}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| inst.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|све́том}}
| align="center"|-
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"| prep.
| align="center"|{{RUchar|о све́те,<br/>в све́те,<br/>на све́те ''and'' на свету́}}
| align="center"|-
|}


----

==Serbian==
===Noun===
'''свет''' {{m}} {{s}}
#[[world]]
====Latin/Roman spelling====
*[[svet#Serbian|svet]]
====Synonyms====
*[[свијет#Serbian|свијет]]
[[Category:Serbian nouns]]
[[Category:Russian nouns]]

[[fr:свет]]
[[pl:свет]]
[[ru:свет]]
[[zh:свет]]