==English==

{{rank|back|under|same|135|take|last|here|thought}}

===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} < {{OE.}} ''[[tacan]]'' < {{ON.}} ''[[taka]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*/teɪk/, /<tt>teIk</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-take.ogg|Audio (US)}}
[[Category:200 English basic words]]

===Verb===
{{irregverb|'''to take'''|'''[[takes]]'''|'''[[took]]'''|'''[[taken]]'''|'''[[taking]]'''}}

# To [[grasp]] with the hands.
# To [[grab]] and move to [[oneself]].
#: ''I’ll '''take''' that plate off the table.''
# To get into one's possession.
# {{military}} To gain a position by force.
#: ''After a bloody battle, they were able to '''take''' the city.''
# To have sex with forcefully, possibly without consent.
#: ''He '''took''' her.''
# To [[carry]], particularly to a particular destination.
#: ''I’ll '''take''' the plate with me.''
#: ''I’ll '''take''' the plate to the sink.''
# To [[choose]].
#: ''I’ll '''take''' the blue plates.''
# To support or carry without failing or breaking.
#: ''That truck bed will only '''take''' two tons.''
# To [[endure]] or cope with.
#: ''I can '''take''' the noise, but I can't take the smell.''
#{{baseball}} To not swing at a pitch
#: ''He’ll probably '''take''' this one.''
# To [[ingest]] [[medicine]], [[drug]]s, etc.
#: ''I '''take''' aspirin every day to thin my blood.''
# Usually with ''for'', to [[assume]] or [[interpret]] to be.
#:''Do you '''take''' me '''for''' a fool
#:''I '''take''' it you’re not going.''
# To [[enroll]] (in a [[class]], or a [[course]] of [[study]])
#: ''I’m '''taking''' math, physics, literature and flower arrangment.''
# To participate in, undergo (a [[test]] or [[exam]]).
#: ''I’m '''taking''' my math final today.''
# {{climbing}} To tighten (take up) a belaying rope. Often used imperatively.
#: '''''Take!'''''
# To [[fight]] or attempt to fight somebody (see also [[take on]]).
#:''Don’t try to '''take''' that guy. He’s bigger than you.''
# To [[stick]], [[persist]], [[thrive]] or [[remain]].
#:''I started some tomato seeds last spring, but they didn’t '''take'''.''
#{{cricket}} to [[catch]] the ball; especially for the [[wicket-keeper]] to catch the ball after the [[batsman]] has missed or edged it.
# (''impersonal'') To require.
#:''whatever it takes'', ''it takes a village'', ''it takes two''
# (''transitive'') To require.
#:''Winning takes patience.''
# To last [an amount of time].
#:''The trip takes ten minutes.''

====Synonyms====
*(''to grasp with the hands''): [[grab]], [[grasp]], [[grip]]
*(''to get into one's possession''): [[confiscate]], [[seize]]
*(''military: to gain a position by force''): [[capture]], [[conquer]], [[seize]]
*(''to have sex with forcefully''): [[have]], [[rape]]

====Translations====

'''to grab with the hands'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[agafar]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[fatta]], [[gripa]], [[ta]], [[ta]] [[tag]] i, [[hålla]] sig i
{{bottom}}

'''to grab and move to oneself'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[merr]]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[اخذ]]}} {{Unicode|(’áχaða)}}
*Catalan: [[prendre]]
*Chinese: [[拿]] (ná)
*Croatian: [[uzeti]], [[uzimati]]
*Dutch: [[nemen]]
*Esperanto: [[preni]]
*Finnish: [[ottaa]]
*French: [[prendre]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[nehmen]]
*Hungarian: [[vesz]]
*Italian: [[prendere]]
*Japanese: [[取る]] (とる, toru)
*Kazakh: [[алу]] (alu) [[:kk:алу|^]]
*Korean: [[잡다]] (jabda)
*Portuguese: [[tomar]]
*Russian: [[брать]] / [[взять]] (brat’ / vzjat’)
*Spanish: [[tomar]]
*Swedish: [[ta]]
*Turkish: [[almak]] [[:tr:almak|(tr)]]
{{bottom}}

'''to get into one's possession'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[prendre]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ta]], [[få]] [[tag]] [[på]]
{{bottom}}

'''military: to gain a position by force'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[erövra]], [[ta]]
{{bottom}}

'''to have sex with forcefully'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[violar]], [[forçar]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ta]]
{{bottom}}

'''to choose'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[agafar]], [[escollir]]
*Finnish: [[ottaa]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ta]], [[välja]]
{{bottom}}

'''to carry'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[viedä]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[levar]], [[carregar]]
*Spanish: [[llevar]]
{{bottom}}

'''to ingest medicine'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[prendre]]
*Finnish: [[ottaa]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ta]]
{{bottom}}

'''to support or carry without failing or breaking'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kestää]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hålla]], [[ta]]
{{bottom}}

'''to endure'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sietää]], [[kestää]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ta]], [[tåla]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|take|takes}}

# An act of taking.
# Something that is taken.
# A [[profit]] or [[reward]].
#:''He wants half of the '''take''' if he helps with the job.''
# An interpretation or view.
#:''What’s your '''take''' on this issue, Fred?''
# {{film}} An attempt to record a scene.
#:''It’s a '''take'''.''
#:''Act seven, scene three, '''take''' two.''
# {{rugby}} A [[catch]].
# {{acting}} A facial gesture in response to an event.
#: ''I did a take when I saw the new car in the driveway.''
#{{cricket}} a catch of the ball, especially by the [[wicket-keeper]]

====Synonyms====
<!-- Senses need to be re-attached -->
*[[get]]
*[[ingest]]
*[[receive]]
*[[swallow]]

====Antonyms====
<!-- Senses need to be re-attached -->
*[[bring]]
*[[drop]]
*[[give]]

====Translations====

'''act of taking'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tagande]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''something that is taken'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''profit or reward'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tuotto]], [[voitto]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[intäkter]] {{c}} {{p}}
{{bottom}}

'''interpretation or view'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[mielipide]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''film: attempt to record a scene'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[presa]]
*Finnish: [[otto]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tagning]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''rugby: catch'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''acting: facial gesture'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''cricket: catch of the ball'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[拿]] (ná), [[取]] (qǔ), [[握]] (wò), [[接受]] (jiēshòu), [[应付]] (yìngfù)
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[brát]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[nemen]]
*{{ttbc|Filipino}}: [[kunin]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[prendre]], [[amener]] (2)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[nehmen]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[prenar]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[ambil|mengambil]], [[pungut|memungut]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[prendere]] (2,5,9,10), [[portare]] (1,4,6), [[violentare]] (3, also ''to rape'')
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[取る]], (''photograph'') [[撮る]] ([[とる]], toru); [[つかむ]] (tsukamu)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[brać]], [[wziąć]], [[zabrać]]
*{{ttbc|Macedonian}}: [[зема]] (zema)
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[брать]] (brat’), [[взять]] (vzjat’)
*{{ttbc|Serbian}}: [[узети]] ([[uzeti]])
*{{ttbc|Sicilian}}: [[pigghiari]] (2,5,9,10)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[vziať]], [[zobrať]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[tomar]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[almak]](1,2,7), [[yakalamak]](4), [[anlamak]](5)

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
*[[bytake]]
*[[double take]]
*[[for the taking]]
*[[intake]]
*[[mistake]]
*[[outtake]]
*[[overtake]]
*[[spit take]]
*[[take a breather]]
*[[take a bite]]
*[[take a chill pill]]
*[[take a dump]]
*[[take a picture]]
*[[take a spill]]
*[[take a spin]]
*[[take aback]]
*[[take action]]
*[[take amiss]]
*[[take away]]
*[[take back]]
*[[take charge]]
*[[take comfort in]]
*[[take cover]]
*[[take down]]
*[[take exception to]]
*[[take five]]
*[[take guard]]
*[[take hold]]
*[[take in]]
*[[take it as it comes]]
{{mid}}
*[[take it easy]]
*[[take it out on]]
*[[take off]]
*[[take off the table]]
*[[take one's rest]]
*[[take one's time]]
*[[take out]]
*[[take part]]
*[[take place]]
*[[take pleasure]]
*[[take pride]]
*[[take prisoner]], [[take no prisoners]]
*[[take silk]]
*[[take the mickey]]
*[[take the piss]]
*[[take time]]
*[[take to]]
*[[take to heart]]
*[[take to one's heels]]
*[[take turns]]
*[[take up]]
*[[take up for]]
*[[take up with]]
*[[takeaway]]
*[[takedown]]
*[[takeout]]
*[[takeout double]]
*[[takeover]]
*[[takings]], [[taking]]
*[[uptake]]
{{bottom}}


----

==Japanese==
===Romaji===
'''take''' ([[たけ]])
#[[竹]]: [[bamboo]]
#[[丈]]: [[height]]
#[[岳]]: [[peak]], [[mountain]]

[[ang:take]]
[[es:take]]
[[fr:take]]
[[gl:take]]
[[io:take]]
[[it:take]]
[[hu:take]]
[[pl:take]]
[[pt:take]]
[[fi:take]]
[[ta:take]]
[[uk:take]]
[[zh:take]]