{{Wikipedia}}

==Translingual==
===Symbol===
'''tan'''
#{{mathematics}} a symbol of the [[trigonometric function]] [[tangent]]

----

==English==

===Pronunciation===
(US) IPA: /tæn/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

#''(colour):'' a yellowish-brown [[color|colour]].
#:<table><tr><td>tan colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#C0AC96" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
#a darkening of the [[skin]] resulting from exposure to the sun.
#:*She still has a '''tan''' from her vacation in Mexico.
#the [[bark]] of an [[oak]] or other [[tree]] from which tannic acid is obtained.

====Translations====
'''colour'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[gebruinde kleur]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[:ru:бежевый|б<u>е</u>жевый]] (цвет) {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''darkening of skin'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[rusketus]]
*French: [[:fr:bronzage|bronz<u>a</u>ge]] {{m}}, [[:fr:hâle|hâle]] {{m}} ''(h aspiré)''
*German: [[Bräune|Br<u>äu</u>ne]] {{f}}, [[Sonnenbräune|S<u>o</u>nnenbräune]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[:ru:загар|заг<u>а</u>р]] {{m}}
*[[w:Ukrainian language|Ukrainian]]: [[:uk:засмага|засм<u>а</u>га]], [[:uk:смага|см<u>а</u>га]] (also [[:uk:смага|смаг<u>а</u>]]); [[:uk:загар|заг<u>а</u>р]]
*Japanese: [[日に焼ける]] (ひにやける, hiniyakeru)
{{bottom}}

'''bark of tree'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[parkki]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

*[[w:Bulgarian language|Bulgarian]]: [[тен]] {{m}}
<!--*German: [[Bräune]] {{f}} noone ever uses [[Bräunung]], and [[Lohe]] is an archaic word for "fire" (which may still be used in leather making)-->
*[[Romanian]] [[bronz]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[bronceado]] ''adj m''

===Adjective===
'''tan'''  ({{compar}}: '''[[tanner]]''', {{superl}}: '''[[tannest]]''')

#(colour) of a yellowish-brown.
#:*Mine is the white car parked next to the '''tan''' pickup truck.
#having dark skin as a result of exposure to the sun.
#:*You're looking very '''tan''' this week.

====Translations====
'''colour'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''dark skin'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[gebruind]], [[gebruinde]]
*Finnish: [[ruskettunut]]
*German: [[braun]], [[sonnengebräunt|s<u>o</u>nnengebräunt]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[:ru:загорелый|загор<u>е</u>лый]] {{m}} ({{f}} -ая, {{n}} -ое)
*Spanish: [[bronceado|bronce<u>a</u>do]] (por el sol) {{m}} ({{f}} -a)
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[жълтокафяв]] {{m}} (1), [[жълтокафява]] {{f}} (1), [[жълтокафяво]] {{n}} (3), 

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|tan||n}}
#{{intransitive}} to change to a tan colour due to exposure to the sun.
#:*No matter how long I stay out in the sun, I never '''tan''' -- though I do burn.
#{{transitive}} to change an [[animal]] [[hide]] into [[leather]] by soaking it in [[tannic acid]]
#*see [[w:Tanning|Wikipedia article on Tanning]]


====Translations====
'''change colour'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ruskettua]]
*Dutch: [[bruinen]]
*French: [[bronzer]]
*German: [[bräunen]]; in der Sonne baden
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[bruinen]], [[zonnebaden]]
*Russian: [[:ru:загорать|загорать]] ''imp'' [[:ru:загореть|загореть]] ''p''
*Spanish: [[broncear]]
{{bottom}}

'''leather-making'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[looien]]
*French: [[tanner]]
*Finnish: [[parkita]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[gerben]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[загарям]] (1), [[щавя]] (2)
*[[Romanian]] [[a se bronza]] (1)

===Derived terms===
*[[Black and Tan]]
*[[tan oak]]
*[[tan somebody's hide]]
*[[tanbark]]
*[[tanner]]
*[[tannery]]

===Related terms===
*[[tannin]]
*[[tannic acid]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Browns]]

----
==Spanish==
===Etymology===
From ''[[tanto]]''

===Adverb===
'''tan'''

# eres tan rico como te sientas (one is as rich as one feels)

====Translations====
*English: [[so]], [[as]]

[[de:tan]]
[[fr:tan]]
[[it:tan]]
[[pl:tan]]