==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æŋ|-æŋ]]

===Noun===
'''tang'''

#A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus).
#A strong or offensive taste; especially, a taste of something extraneous to the thing itself; as, wine or cider has a tang of the cask.
#Fig.: A sharp, specific flavor or tinge.  Cf. Tang a twang.
#A projecting part of an object by means of which it is secured to a handle, or to some other part; anything resembling a tongue in form or position.
#The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which is inserted into the handle.
#The projecting part of the breech of a musket barrel, by which the barrel is secured to the stock.
#The part of a sword blade to which the handle is fastened.
#The tongue of a buckle.
#A sharp, twanging sound; an unpleasant tone; a twang.

====Translations====
; handle-related
{{top}}
*Korean: [[슴베]] (seumbe)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''tang'''

# [[tongs]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==Kurdish==
===Noun===
'''tang'''

# [[side]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]
----
==Thai==
===Noun===
'''tang-(mo)'''

# [[watermelon]]
----
==Tok Pisin==
===Etymology===
From English ''[[tongue]]''.
===Noun===
'''tang'''

# [[tongue]]
[[Category:Tok Pisin nouns]]
[[Category:tpi:Anatomy]]
----
==Torres Strait Creole==
===Etymology===
From English ''[[tongue]]''.
===Noun===
'''tang'''

# [[tongue]]
[[Category:Torres Strait Creole nouns]]
[[Category:tcs:Anatomy]]

[[fr:tang]]
[[io:tang]]
[[nl:tang]]
[[vi:tang]]