==English==

===Etymology===
Indian vernacular word (eg. Gujarati ''taku'', or Marathi ''take'' (please improve these transliterations or replace them by the proper words)) for a large artificial water reservoir (cistern, pool, etc.), via Portuguese ''[[tanque]]'', "tank", "liquid container". Also, Arabic has a verb ''istanqa`a'' = "it (= a liquid) collected and became stagnant".

As an armored military vehicle: to disguise its intended purpose, prototypes were described as tanks for carrying water.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# A container for liquids or gases, typically with a volume of several cubic metres.
# A heavy armoured fighting vehicle, armed with a large gun and moving on caterpillar tracks. For details see the [[w:tank|Wikipedia article on "tank"]].
# (Australian and Indian English), a [[reservoir]] or dam.
# {{slang}} a very muscular and physically intense person
# In USA scuba divers' usage, a compressed air or gas cylinder.
# In online and offline [[role-playing game]]s, a character designed primarily around damage absorption with offensive power as a close secondary consideration.
# For uses as a name, see [[w:Tank|tank]] in Wikipedia.

====Translations====
'''container'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tankki]]
*German: [[Tank]] ''m''
*Hebrew: [[מיכל]] ''m''
*Interlingua: [[tank]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[タンク]](たんく, tanku)
*Polish: [[zbiornik]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[tanque]] ''m''
*Russian: [[бак]] (bak) ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''military equipment'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[panssarivaunu]], [[tankki]]
*German: [[Panzer]] ''m''
*Hebrew: [[טנק]] ''m''
*Interlingua: [[tank]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[戦車]](せんしゃ, sensha)
*Polish: [[czołg]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[tanque]] ''m''
*Russian: [[танк]] (tank) ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''role playing character'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tankki]]
{{bottom}}

'''muscular and physically intense person'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kaappi]] (''slang'')
{{bottom}}

'''Translations to be checked'''

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To [[fail]] or [[fall]] (often used in describing the economy or the stockmarket); to [[degenerate]] or [[decline]] rapidly; to [[plummet]].

[[Category:Portuguese derivations]]
[[Category:Military vehicles]]

[[cs:tank]]
[[el:tank]]
[[fr:tank]]
[[ko:tank]]
[[io:tank]]
[[it:tank]]
[[pl:tank]]
[[sl:tank]]
[[fi:tank]]
[[ta:tank]]
[[vi:tank]]