==English==
===Etymology===
From [[w:Tantalus|Tantalus]] (Τάνταλος) in Greek mythology, who was condemned to [[Tartarus]] in the underworld. There, he had to stand for eternity in water that receded from him when he stooped to drink, beneath fruit trees whose branches were always out of reach.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈtæntəleɪz/}}
*{{audio|en-us-tantalize.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|tantalize|tantalizes|tantalized|tantalizing}}

# to [[tease]] someone by [[offering]] something [[desirable]] but keeping it [[out of reach]]

====Quotations====
*'''1880''' — [[w:John Boyle O'Reilly|John Boyle O'Reilly]], ''[[s:Moondyne|Moondyne]]''
*:They could not bear to be '''tantalized''' nor tortured by the splendid delusion.
*'''1884''' — [[w:Edwin Abbott Abbott|Edwin Abbott Abbott]], ''[[s:Flatland|Flatland]]'', section 22
*:All pleasures palled upon me; all sights '''tantalized''' and tempted me to outspoken treason, because I could not but compare what I saw in Two Dimensions with what it really was if seen in Three, and could hardly refrain from making my comparisons aloud.
*'''1895''' — [[w:Stephen Crane|Stephen Crane]], ''[[s:The Red Badge of Courage|The Red Badge of Courage]]'', Ch. XV
*:He had been possessed of much fear of his friend, for he saw how easily questionings could make holes in his feelings. Lately, he had assured himself that the altered comrade would not '''tantalize''' him with a persistent curiosity, but he felt certain that during the first period of leisure his friend would ask him to relate his adventures of the previous day.
*'''1925''' — [[w:F. Scott Fitzgerald|F. Scott Fitzgerald]], ''[[s:The Great Gatsby|The Great Gatsby]]'', Ch. 3
*:“It was—simply amazing,” she repeated abstractedly. “But I swore I wouldn’t tell it and here I am '''tantalizing''' you.”
*'''1936''' — [[w:H. P. Lovecraft|H. P. Lovecraft]], ''[[s:At the Mountains of Madness|At the Mountains of Madness]]'', Ch. IX
*:As we threaded our dim way through the labyrinth with the aid of map and compass ... we were repeatedly '''tantalized''' by the sculptured walls along our route. ... If we had had more films, we would certainly have paused briefly to photograph certain bas-reliefs, but time-consuming hand-copying was clearly out of the question.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Icelandic: [[stríða]] [[með]] [[tálvon|tálvonum]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[tantalizing]]