==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
Italian [[tarantella#Italian|tarantella]], a diminutive of [[w:Taranto|Taranto]], a town in southern Italy (but popularly associated with [[tarantola]] ‘tarantula’).

===Pronunciation===
*(US) {{IPA|/ˌtɛrənˈtɛlə/}}
*(RP) {{IPA|/tærən'tɛlə/}}
*{{audio|en-us-tarantella.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}
# a rapid [[dance]] in 6/8 time, originating in Italy, or a piece of music for such a dance

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1800s=1868 1895|
1900s=1922}}
*'''1868''' — [[w:Louisa May Alcott|Louisa May Alcott]], ''[[s:Little Women|Little Women]]'' ch. 37
*:The set in which they found themselves was composed of English, and Amy was compelled to walk decorously through a cotillion, feeling all the while as if she could dance the '''tarantella''' with relish.
*'''1895''' — [[w:Bret Harte|Bret Harte]], ''[[s:The Devotion of Enriquez|The Devotion of Enriquez]]''
*:"A '''tarantella''', I presume?" blandly suggested the doctor.
*:Miss Mannersley stopped, and rose carelessly from the piano. "It is a Moorish gypsy song of the fifteenth century," she said dryly.
*'''1922''' — [[w:Walter Lippmann|Walter Lippmann]], ''[[s: Public Opinion | Public Opinion ]]'' ch. v
*:We learn to understand why our addled minds seize so little with precision, why they are caught up and tossed about in a kind of '''tarantella''' by headlines and catch-words, why so often they cannot tell things apart or discern identity in apparent differences.

===Related terms===
*[[tarantism]]

===See also===
*[[tarantula]]

==Italian==
===Etymology===
Diminutive of [[w:Taranto|Taranto]], a town in southern Italy (but popularly associated with [[tarantola]] ‘tarantula’).

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/taran'tɛl:a/}}

===Noun===
'''tarantella''' ''f''
# [[tarantella#English|tarantella]]

[[Category:Italian nouns]]
[[io:tarantella]]
[[fi:tarantella]]