{{see|Te|té}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
{{SAMPA|/ti:/}}

===Etymology===
Altered from ''[[si]]'' in the 19th century to prevent having two notes of the musical scale starting with the same letter.

===Noun===
'''te'''

#{{Music}} The seventh note of a major scale.
#{{Music}} The note B in the [[fixed doh]] system.

===Variant spelling===
* (''North America'') [[ti]]


----

==Basque==
===Noun===
'''te'''

# [[tea]].


----

==Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
{{SAMPA|/t@/}}

===Adverb===
'''te'''

# ''indicating excess:'' [[too]]
#: ''Te veel is nooit goed'': too much is never good; ''te gek!'': far out!

[[Category:Dutch adverbs]]

===Definite article===
'''te'''

# ''archaic'', in idiom; a form of [[de]]
#: ''Te drommel'': by Jove.

[[Category:Dutch articles]]

===Preposition===
'''te'''

# located [[at]], [[in]]
#: '''''Te''' Amsterdam'': in Amsterdam.
# ''(modifying an infinitive verb)'' [[to]]
#: ''Er is iets '''te''' eten'': there is something to eat.

[[Category:nl:Prepositions]]

----

==Estonian==

===Personal pronoun===
'''te''' (''short form of'' '''[[teie]]''')

#[[you]] (''plural and polite form'').


----

==Finnish==

===Personal pronoun===
'''te''' (''stem'' '''tei-''')

#[[you]] (''plural, polite form'').

====Variant forms====
*(''dialectal'') [[tet#Finnish|tet]] 
*(''dialectal'') [[työ]]

====Declension====
The stem is invariant and the suffixes regular except in the genitive where the form is ''teidän''.

====See also====
*[[hän#Finnish|hän]]
*[[he#Finnish|he]]
*[[me#Finnish|me]]
*[[minä#Finnish|minä]]
*[[sinä#Finnish|sinä]]


----

==French==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/tə/}}

===Pronoun===
'''te'''

#[[you]] (used as an indirect object)
#: ''Il te donne le livre.'': He gives you the book.


----

==Hungarian==
===Pronoun===
'''te'''

# [[you]] (''singular'')


----

==Icelandic==
===Noun===
'''te''' {{n}}

# [[tea]]


----

==Irish==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[t&#690;e]}}
===Adjective===
'''te''' ({{p}}: [[teo]], ''[[comparative|comp.]]'': [[teo]])
#[[warm]]
#[[hot]]


----

==Italian==
===Pronoun===
'''te'''

# (''emphasised objective of [[tu#Italian|tu]]'') [[you]]

===See also===
*[[ti#Italian|ti]]
*[[tè]]


----

==Lojban==
===Cmavo===
'''te''' (''[[rafsi]]:'' ter)
# refers to the x3 sumti of the following word

[[Category:jbo:Cmavo]]

----

==[[Maori]]==
===Article===
'''te'''
# [[the]], the definite article, singular. (''Plural:'' [[ngā]])


-----

==Norwegian==
===Noun===
'''te''' {{c}}

# [[tea]].


----

==Spanish==
===Etymology===
Latin ''te'', accusative of ''[[tu]]''
===Pronoun===
'''te'''

# you (familar objective case form)
#: ''Te voy hacer tus calzones....'' &mdash; I’m going to make you shoes (from the song ''La Cucaracha'')

===See also===
{{Spanish pronoun}}


-----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''te''' {{n}} (''definite singular'' '''teet''', ''indefinite plural'' '''teer''', ''definite plural'' '''teerna''')

# [[tea]].

[[Category:Estonian pronouns]]
[[Category:Finnish pronouns]]
[[Category:French pronouns]]
[[Category:Hungarian pronouns]]
[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]
[[Category:Irish adjectives]]
[[Category:Italian pronouns]]
[[Category:Maori language]]
[[Category:Spanish pronouns]]

[[de:te]]
[[et:te]]
[[fr:te]]
[[ko:te]]
[[io:te]]
[[id:te]]
[[ku:te]]
[[la:te]]
[[hu:te]]
[[nl:te]]
[[ja:te]]
[[pl:te]]
[[pt:te]]
[[ru:te]]
[[sl:te]]
[[fi:te]]
[[sv:te]]
[[vi:te]]
[[zh:te]]