==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: tē
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /tiː/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /ti:/

===Homophones===
*[[T]], [[te]], [[tee]], [[ti]]

===Noun===
'''tea''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]'')

#(''[[uncountable]]'') The dried leaves or buds of the [[tea plant]], ''[[Camellia sinensis]]''.
#:''Go to the supermarket and by some tea.''
#(''[[uncountable]]'') The drink made by [[infuse|infusing]] these dried leaves or buds in hot water, often served with milk or cream and sugar added.
#:''Would you like some tea?''
#(''[[countable]]'') A cup of this drink.
#:''I'd like two teas, please.''
#(''[[uncountable]]'') By extension, any drink made by infusing parts of various other plants.
#:''camomile tea''
#(''[[countable]]'') A cup of any one of these drinks.
#(''especially in Britain''; ''[[uncountable]]'') A light meal eaten mid-afternoon, typically with tea.
#:''Kids, your tea's on the table!''
#(''British''; ''[[uncountable]]'') The main evening meal, irrespective of whether tea is drunk with it.
#:''The family were sitting round the table, having their tea.''

====Synonyms====
*(''dried leaves of tea plant''): [[tea leaves]]
*(''drink made by infusing parts of various other plants''): [[herb tea]], [[herbal tea]], [[infusion]], [[tisane]]

====Translations====

'''dried leaves of tea plant'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{fr}}: [[thé]] ''m''
*{{it}}: [[tè]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{sk}}: [[čaj#Slovak|čaj]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''drink made from leaves of tea plant'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Chinese: [[茶]] (chá)
*{{fr}}: [[thé]] ''m''
*Greek: [[τσάι]] ''n''
*{{it}}: [[tè]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{sk}}: [[čaj#Slovak|čaj]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''cup of this drink'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{sk}}: [[čaj#Slovak|čaj]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''drink made from other plants'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[tisane]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[tisana]] ''f''
*{{sk}}: [[čaj#Slovak|čaj]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''cup of drink made from other plants'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{sk}}: [[čaj#Slovak|čaj]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''light afternoon meal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[goûter]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{sk}}: [[olovrant#Slovak|olovrant]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''dinner'''
''See [[dinner]]''

=====Translations to be checked=====

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  Note that the numbering is unreliable.

*Basque: [[te]]
*Dutch: [[thee]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[teo]]
*{{fi}}: [[tee]]
*{{de}}: [[Tee]] ''m''
*Hebrew: [[תה]] (Té) ''m''
*{{ja}}: [[茶]] (ちゃ, cha), [[お茶]] (おちゃ, o cha, with the honorific prefix)
*Korean: [[차]] (cha)
*Norwegian: [[te]] ''c''
*{{pl}}: [[herbata]] ''f''
*{{pt}}: [[chá]] ''m''
*Russian: [[чай]]
*Slovene: [[čaj]] ''m''
*{{es}}: [[té]] ''m''
*{{sv}}: [[te]] ''n''
*{{bo}}: [[ཇ་]] (za)
*Turkish: [[çay]]

===Derived terms===
*[[camomile tea]]
*[[cup of tea]]<!--as in "just my cup of tea"-->
*[[fruit tea]]
*[[herb tea]]
*[[high tea]]
*[[mint tea]]
*[[teabag]]
*[[tea break]]
*[[tea caddy]]
*[[teacake]]
*[[tea cosy]]
*[[teacup]]
*[[tea leaf]]<!--Cockney rhyming slang for "thief"-->
*[[tea leaves]]
*[[tea party]]
*[[teapot]]
*[[Teasmade]]&reg;
*[[teaspoon]]
*[[tea strainer]]
*[[tea towel]]
*[[tea tray]]
*[[tea urn]]

===See also===
*[[w:Tea|Wikipedia article on tea]]