==English==
===Pronunciation===
/ten-der/
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛndə(r)|-ɛndə(r)]]

===Adjective===
'''tender''' ([[tenderer]], [[tenderest]])

# Sensitive or [[pain|painful]] to be touched.  
#:''Be careful, that area is'' '''tender'''. - Mike Meyers as the voice of the title character in the movie ''Shrek''.
# Of food, soft and easily [[chewed]].  
#:''The matrix is telling my [[brain]] this [[steak]] is'' '''tender''', ''[[succulent]] and juicy.'' - Joey Pantolino in the movie ''The Matrix'.'

====Related terms====
*[[tenderfoot]]
*[[tenderise]], [[tenderize]]
*[[tenderly]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[غض]]}} {{Unicode|(ğaɖɖ)}}
*Chinese: [[嫩的]] (nènde)
*Danish: [[øm]] (1); [[mør]] (2)
*Dutch: [[teder]]
*Finnish: [[hellä]] (1), [[murea]] (2)
*French: [[tendre]]
*German: [[zart]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[tenero]] {{m}}, tenera {{f}}
*Japanese: [[柔らかな]] (やわらかな, yawarakana)
*Korean: [[연한]] (yeonhan)
*Portuguese: [[tenro]]
*Russian: [[нежный]] (néžnyj)
*Spanish: [[tierno]]
*Swedish: [[öm]] (1); [[mör]] (2)
*Telugu: [[లేత]] (laeta)(2)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#{{rfv-sense}} A type of [[payment]] such as a [[check]] or [[cheque]], cash or [[credit card]].
#:''Your [[credit card]] has been declined. You need to provide some other'' '''tender''' ''such as cash.''
#A [[railroad]] car towed behind a steam engine to carry fuel.
#{{nautical}} A naval [[ship]] that functions as a mobile base for other ships.
#:''submarine tender''
#:''destroyer tender''
#{{nautical}} A [[boat]] used for transportation between a ship and shore.

====Related terms====
*[[legal tender]]

====Translations====
*Danish: [[betalingsmiddel]] {{n}} (1); [[tender]] (2); [[forsyningsskib]] (3)

===Verb===
'''to tender''' ([[tendered]], tendered)

# {{formal}} To offer, to give.
#:*'''tender''' one's resignation
#*'''1864''' November 21, Abraham Lincoln (signed) or John Hay, letter to Mrs. Bixby in Boston
#*: I cannot refrain from '''tendering''' to you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the Republic they died to save.
# To offer as payment.

[[ang:tender]]
[[es:tender]]
[[fr:tender]]
[[io:tender]]
[[id:tender]]
[[it:tender]]
[[hu:tender]]
[[pl:tender]]
[[pt:tender]]
[[fi:tender]]
[[vi:tender]]
[[zh:tender]]