==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|tĕnt}}, {{IPA|/tent/}}, {{SAMPA|/tent/}}
*{{audio|en-us-inlandnorth-tent.ogg|Audio (US-Inland North)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛnt|-ɛnt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{archaic}} A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; called also tent wine, and tinta.
# {{archaic}} Attention; regard, care.
# {{archaic}} Intention; design.
# {{medicine}} A roll of lint or linen, or a conical or cylindrical piece of sponge or other absorbent, used chiefly to dilate a natural canal, to keep open the orifice of a wound, or to absorb discharges. <!-- Should [[stent]] be listed as a related word? -->
# {{medicine}} A probe for searching a wound.
# A pavilion or portable lodge consisting of skins, canvas, or some strong cloth, stretched and sustained by poles, used for sheltering persons from the weather.
# {{archaic}} The representation of a tent used as a bearing.

====Translations====
'''wine'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''regard'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''intention'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''absorbent'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''probe'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''portable lodge'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[çadër]] {{m}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[خيمة]]}} {{Unicode|(χái:ma)}} {{f}}
*Bosnian: [[šator#Bosnian|šator]] {{m}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[tenda]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[帳篷]], [[帐篷]] (zhàngpéng)
*Croatian: [[šator#Croatian|šator]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[telt]] {{n}}
*Dutch: tent
*Finnish: [[teltta]]
*French: [[tente]]
*German: [[Zelt]]
*Hungarian: [[sátor]]
*Italian: [[tenda]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[テント]] (tento)
*Korean: [[텐트]] (tenteu)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[چادر]]}} (čâdor)
*Polish: [[namiot]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[tenda]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[cort]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[палатка]] (palátka) {{f}}
*Sardinian (Campidanese): [[denda]] {{f}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[шатор#Serbian|шатор]] {{m}}
*:Roman: [[šator#Serbian|šator]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[tienda]] {{f}}, [[carpa]] {{f}} <!--[[tienda de campaña]] {{f}} this would only be used to disambiguate since tienda also means shop/store. in fact i've never seen this phrase but I have seen "tienda de campo"-->
*Swedish: [[tält]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[గుడారము]], [[టెంటు]]
*Turkish: [[çadır]]
{{bottom}}

'''representation used as bearing'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|CJKV Characters}}: [[幕]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To go [[camp]]ing.
#: ''We'll be '''tented''' at the campground this weekend.''
# {{archaic}} To attend to; to heed; hence, to guard; to hinder.
# {{medicine}} To probe or to search with a tent; to keep open with a tent; as, to tent a wound. Used also figuratively.
# {{cooking}} To prop up aluminum foil in an inverted "V" (reminicent of a pop-up tent) over food to reduce splatter, before putting it in the oven.

===Related terms===
*[[camp]]
*[[lean-to]]
*[[tarp]]

{{webster}}

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''tent''' (plural: [[tenten]], diminutive: [[tentje]])

# [[#English|tent]] (for camping)

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

[[ang:tent]]
[[fr:tent]]
[[io:tent]]
[[hu:tent]]
[[nl:tent]]
[[pl:tent]]
[[fi:tent]]
[[sv:tent]]
[[vi:tent]]