To define psychology as the study of the mind and of behaviour and to argue that psychologists ‘seek to understand how we think, learn, perceive, feel, act, interact with others, and even understand ourselves.

Psychology is often regarded as the science of behaviour. In fact, psychology is more accurately define as the science which uses information about behaviour and self-reported experience to understand the internal processes which lead individuals to think and behave in the ways they do. It is often argued that psychology is just common sense. However, it is often not clear what would be expected on the basis of common sense. There is a tendency for people to be wise after the even, and this helps to explain why they can mistaken by regard psychologists’ findings as advious.




Psychology claims to be international profession and research discipline through its presence in many countries around the world. This claim is often based on subjective estimates of ‘attendance at international congress. – psychology is an international discipline and profession. International congresses seem to be the single most widely representative forum for the world-wide exchange of research and practice ideas and findings.  To be an international science and profession, psychology needs to generate and exchange knowledge acquired through research and practice. (International journal of psychology). 


Individual differences
As our everday experience makes clear, there are great in thinking, attitudes and behaviour. We saw earlier in that chapter that Francis Galton was the first psychologist to study individual differences in intelligence, and that he devised that the world’s first intelligence test. However, his test consisted of very simple tasks (e.g. reaction time) and failed to measure intelligence properly. As the beginning of the twentieth century, Alfred Binet devised the first adequate test of intelligence.

There are, of course, numerous different kinds of important individual differences. However, psychologists have focused maily on individual differenceas in intelligence and personality. The main way in which individual differences in personality have been assessed is by means of self-report questionnaires. J.P. Guilford (1936) was key figure in the development of such questionnaires, followed by personality theorists such as……..

In view of the apparent importance of individual differences, it might be imagined that most psychologists would include a systematic investigation of individual differences research. In fact, this is not the case at all, since most researchers compare groups of participants and ignore individual differences. One reason put forward for this neglect of individual differences is that on personality. This issue was studied by Sarason (1975). They considered the role of personality and of the situation in determining behaviour in a total of 138 experiments which had been carried out by numerous different researchers on various issues. On average, personalty and the situation had approximately the same impact on behaviour, but that of situation was slightly greater than that of personality. In view of these findings, it is wrong to argue that behaviour depends very little on individual differences in personality.  

Chapter 13
Heredity and environment
There has been a considerable amount of controversy about the relative importance in determining intelligence and IQ. Unfortunately, many of those who have become involved in the controversy have assumed from outset that intelligence is determined almost entirely by either heredity or environment. 

Some psychologists (e.g Donald Hebb) have argued that the issue of the relative roles of heredity and environment in determining in intelligence is essentially meaningless. Hebb drew an analogy between addressing that issue and asking whether the area of a field is determined more by its length or by its width. Obviously, the area of a field depends crucially on both length and width, and it is very important to recognize that intelligence depends crucially on both  heredity and environment.


Summary
Attempts to determine whether individual differences in intelligence are due more to heredity or to environment have often involved twin studies or adoption studies. Monozygotic twins (whether brought up together or apart) tend to be more similar in IQ than dizygotic twins, indicating that heredity is of importance. Heredity and environment both emerge as important determinants of intelligence in adoption studies. Group (e.g. racial) differences in intelligence depend to a large extent on environment deprivation. It is entirely possible that environmental deprivation accounts for all such differences. Attempts have been made to find the underlying biological mechanisme of intelligence, but they have failed.

Personality and its determinants.
Personality refers to relatively stable, internal factors which produce consistent individual differences at the emotional and motivational levels. Adult personality may depend mainly on childhood experiences (psychoanalytic approach), or it may depend on experiences throughout life (humanistic approach, social-learning approach). Alternatively, it may depend mainly on genetic factors (trait approach).