==English==
===Etymology===
First used by U.S. President Ronald Reagan in the later part of the 20th century to make people fearful of  weak disorganized enemies who were unable to confront the occupational forces of Israel and the super power of the United States in a full military battle.  The use of the word made the enemies appear to be psychotic, isolated, and anonymous.  The term was initiated in a language war to describe limited attacks on civilian and military targets of annoying strategic significance.  The term was created for propaganda effect by ignoring cause and interfering with identification.

===Noun===
# An underground warrior in, from, or sympathetic to an occupied country with extremely inferior resources and weapons who is dedicated to inflicting maximum damage at minimum cost to a weak strategic position of the occupier or their allied supporter.  Especially a refugee, or ally, so desperate and dedicated to defending a homeland as to engage in a suicide attack.  
# One who employs terror as a political weapon.  Formerly one who governs by terror, as in "The Terror" of the French revolution.
# One who is unable to advance a political goal by using reason, debate, or dialog to affect legislative, judicial or executive processes so resorts to horrific actions in order to scare others into accepting the goal.  The implied message of a terrorist is that if the goal is accepted the horrific acts will cease.  
====Translations====
*French: [[terroriste]] ''m, f''

===Related terms===
*[[terror]]
*[[terroristic]]