==English==
===Proverb===
'''[[the|The]] [[grass]] [[is]] [[always]] [[green]]er [[on]] [[the]] [[other]] [[side]]'''

# {{idiom}}: Other people's [[circumstance]]s seem more desirable than one's own.

<!--Redundant: the definition sums this point up.
Notes: Not only does this proverb use a metaphor (greenness standing for the quality of something) but it is also a statement that is evidently untrue ("other situations are always better than the status quo") that the point of it is not what it says but the fact that people tend to think so.
-->
====Forms and variants====
*[[the grass is always greener]] (''normal shortened form'')
*[[the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence]] (''normal long form'')

====Translations====
<!--Note: please provide EQUIVALENT IDIOMS in foreign languages - DO NOT TRANSLATE THE EXPRESSION WORD FOR WORD!-->
<!--Disputed: these look like word-for-word translations rather than equivalent idioms:
*Italian: L'erba del vicino è sempre più verde.
*Spanish: El cesped es siempre más verde al otro lado.
*Russian: Трава всегда зеленее по другую сторону забора [assumption: ...on the other side '''of the fence''']; This is not necessarily an idiomatic expression in Russian, though. An analogue of this idiom is the following: "Соседняя очередь всегда движется быстрее" [''[[The other queue always moves faster]]''; derived from [[w:Murphy's laws|Murphy's laws]]].
-->
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[het gras is altijd groener aan de overkant]]
*Finnish: ruoho on aina vihreämpää aidan toisella puolella
*French: L'herbe est toujours plus verte dans le pré du voisin.
*German: die Kirschen aus Nachbars Garten schmecken immer besser/schmecken immer noch am besten<!--literally: "the cherries from the neighbor's garden always taste better/still taste the best"-->
*Hindi: [[दूर के ढोल सुहावने]]
*Japanese: [[隣の芝生は青く見える]] (tonari no shibafu wa aoku mieru)
*Russian: [[соседняя очередь всегда движется быстрее]]<!--literally: "the other queue always moves faster"-->; (''vulgar'') [[в чужих руках толще]] [[Там хорошо, где нас нет]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[gresset er alltid grønnere på den andre siden]]<!--literally the same as English, but also an idiom in Norwegian-->
*Swedish: [[gräset är alltid grönare på andra sidan]].<!--literally the same as English, but also an idiom in Swedish-->
*Telugu: 
*#[[దూరపు కొండలు నునుపు]] <!-- Distant hills look smooth -->
*#[[పొరుగింటి పుల్లకూర రుచి]] <!-- Even the sour curry of the neighbour tastes good -->
*Turkish: [[çimen diğer tarafta her zaman daha yeşildir]].
*Spanish: el pasto (o la grama) es siempre mas verde en el otro lado.
*Italian: L'erba del vicino è sempre più verde.
*Portuguese: A grama é sempre mais verde do outro lado.
{{bottom}}
[[Category:en:Proverbs]]

[[fr:the grass is always greener on the other side]]
[[pl:the grass is always greener on the other side]]