===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ðə/ before consonant, /ðiː/ before vowel or when empasized
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /D@/ before consonant, /Di:/ before vowel or when emphasized
===Article===

'''the''' 

# "Definite article", placed before nouns, indicating a specific person or thing instead of a general case. Compare with [[a]].

====Translations====
*[[Afrikaans]]: [[die]]
*Arabic: [[-ال]]
*[[Aragonese]]: [[o]] ''m'', [[a]] ''f'', [[os]] ''m, pl'', [[as]] ''f, pl''
*[[Basque]]: [[-a]]
*[[Catalan]]:
**[[el]] ''m'' ''s'', [[lo]] ''m'' ''s'', [[es]] ''m'' ''s'', [[so]] ''m'' ''s'' (after [[amb]]: with)
**[[la]] ''f'' ''s'', [[sa]] ''f'', ''s''
**[[els]] ''m'' ''pl'', [[es]] ''m'' ''pl'', [[sos]] ''m'' ''pl'' (after [[amb]]:with), [[ets]] ''m'' ''pl'' (before vowel)
**[[les]] ''f'' ''pl'', [[ses]] ''f'' ''pl''
**Before vowel: [[l']] ''m'' & ''f'' ''s'' [[s']] ''m'' & ''f'' ''s''
*Chinese: not used.
*Danish: [[en]] ''c'', [[et]] ''n'', [[de]] ''pl''
*Dutch: [[de]] ''m, f, pl'', [[het]] ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[la]]
*Finnish: ''Not used. A demonstrative pronoun may be used for emphasis, but generally nothing needed.''
*French: [[le]] ''m'', [[la]] ''f'', [[les]] ''pl''
*[[Frisian]]: [[de]], [[it]]
*Georgian: not used.
*German: 
**[[der]] ''m, nominative'', [[die]] ''f, nominative'', [[das]] ''n, nominative''
**[[des]] -es ''m, genitive'', [[der]] ''f, genitive'', [[des]] -es ''n, genitive''
**[[dem]] -(e) ''m, dative'', [[der]]  ''f, dative'', [[dem]] -(e) ''n, dative''
**[[den]] ''m, accusative'', [[die]] ''f, accusative'', [[das]] ''n, accusative''
**[[die]] ''m, pl, nominative'', [[die]] ''f, pl, nominative'', [[die]] ''n, pl, nominative''
**[[der]] ''m, pl, genitive'', [[der]] ''f, pl, genitive'', [[der]] ''n, pl, genitive''
**[[den]] -n ''m, pl, dative'', [[den]]  ''f, pl, dative'', [[den]] -n ''n, pl, dative''
**[[die]] ''m, pl, accusative'', [[die]] ''f, pl, accusative'', [[die]] ''n, pl, accusative''
*Greek: [[ο]] ''m'', [[η]] ''f'', [[το]] ''n''; [[οι]] ''m/f pl'', [[τα]] ''n pl''
*[[Hawaiian]]: [[ka]], [[ke]] ''s''; [[na]] ''pl''
*Hebrew: [[-ה]]
*Indonesian: [[si]], [[sang]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[le]]
*Irish: [[an]] ''s'', [[na]] ''pl''
*Japanese: not used.
*[[Maori]]: [[te]] ''s'', [[nga]] ''pl''
*Norwegian: [[-en]] ''c/m'', [[-et]] ''n''; [[en]] ''c/m'', [[ei]] ''f'', [[et]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[o]] ''m'', [[a]] ''f'', [[os]] ''m,pl'', [[as]] ''f,pl''
*Romanian: ''in form of suffixes added at the end of the word:'' [[-ul]] ''m, sg'', [[-a]] ''f, sg'', [[-i]] ''m, pl'' , [[-le]] ''f, pl''; ''Neuter gender words use the masculine form on singular and the feminine form on plural.''
*Russian: not used.
*[[Samoan]]: [[le]] ''s'', [[e]] ''pl''
*Spanish: [[el]] ''m'', [[la]] ''f'', [[los]] ''m,pl'', [[las]] ''f,pl''. [[lo]] ''n''
*Swedish: ''uses articles and/or suffixes at the same time''
**''articles:'' [[den]], [[det]] ''sg''; [[de]] ''pl''
**''suffixes:'' [[-en]], [[-et]] ''sg''; [[-en]], [[-na]] ''pl''
*[[Tongan]]: [[te]]
*Turkish: not used. A word '''not''' preceded by [[bir]] is implicitely definite.
*Welsh: [['r]], [[yr]], [[y]]