==English==

===Etymology===
From Middle English '''they''' < Old Norse '''[[þeir]]''' (those) < Proto-Germanic '''[[*thai]]''' (those), < Proto-Indo-European pronomial base '''[[*to-]]''' (that).

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: /<i>th</i>ā/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ðeɪ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /DeI/

===[[Personal pronoun]]===
The third person, nominative case, usually plural, but sometimes used incorrectly in the singular when the gender is unknown.
(''Objective case'': [[them]], ''possessive'': [[their]], ''possessive noun''; [[theirs]], ''reflexive'': [[themselves]].)

# The third person, '''they''' refers to a group of others.
#:''Fred and Jane? They just arrived.''
# An indefinite pronoun having a vague meaning of "people" or "some people".
#:''They say it's a good place to live.''
#:''They didn't have computers in the old days.''
#:''They should do something about this.''
*Another indefinite pronoun is [[one]], but the two words do not mean the same and are rarely interchangeable.

====Usage notes====
*''incorrect'': If a ''[[child]]'' is too short for the [[rollercoaster]], ''they'' will not be allowed to ride.  (The subject [singular] and the personal pronoun [plural] do not [[agree]] in [[number]].)
*''correct options'':
**If ''[[children]]'' are too short for the [[rollercoaster]], ''they'' will not be allowed to ride.  
**If a ''[[child]]'' is too short for the [[rollercoaster]], ''it'' will not be allowed to ride.  
**If a ''[[child]]'' is too short for the [[rollercoaster]], ''he'' will not be allowed to ride.  
**If a ''[[child]]'' is too short for the [[rollercoaster]], ''she'' will not be allowed to ride.

====Translations====
*Arabic: [[هما|هُمَا]] (húmaː) ''dual'', [[‎‎هم|هُمُ]] / [[‎‎هم|هُمْ]] (hum/húmu) ''pl'', [[‎‎هن|هُنَّ]] (húnna) ''f/pl''
*Bulgarian: [[те]] (te)
*[[Chinese]]: [[他们]], [[她们]], [[它们]], [[人们]]
*Czech: [[oni]], [[ony]]
*Dutch: [[zij]], [[ze]]
*[[Dyirbal]]: ''(no third-person pronoun)''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ili]] (1), [[tiuj]] (1), [[oni]] (2)
*Finnish: [[he#Finnish|he]] (1, ''of people''), [[ne#Finnish|ne]] (1, ''of things and animals'')
*[[Fijian]]: [[rau]] ''(dual)'', [[iratou]] ''([[paucal]])'', [[ira]] ''(pl)''
*French: [[ils]] ''m'', [[elles]] ''f''
*German: [[sie]]
*Greek: [[αυτοί]] / [[αυταί]] / [[αυτά]] (aftí/afté/aftá) ''m/f/n''
*[[Hausa]]: [[súu]] ''(independent form)''
*Hawaiian: [[lāua]] ''dual'', [[lākou]] ''pl''
*Hebrew: [[הם]] (hēm) ''m'', [[הן]] (hēn) ''f''
*Hungarian: [[ők]]
*[[Ido]]: [[li]], [[ili]] ''m'', [[eli]] ''f'', [[oli]] ''things''
*Indonesian: [[mereka]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[illes]] ''m'' (a group with at least one male), [[illas]] ''f'' (a group of females), illos ''n'' (a group of things) (1); [[uno]], [[on]] (2)
*Italian: [[essi]], [[loro]]
*Japanese: [[彼ら]] / [[彼等]] ([[かれら]], karéra)
*Korean: [[그들]] (geudeul)
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[wiinawaa]]
*Polish: [[oni]]  ''m'', [[one]] ''(nonmasculine)''
*Portuguese: [[eles]] ''m'', [[elas]] ''f''
*[[Quechua]]: [[paykuna]]
*Romanian: [[ei]] ''m'', [[ele]] ''f''
*Russian: [[они]] (oní)
*Scottish Gaelic: [[iad]] ''non-emphatic'', [[iadsan]] ''emphatic''
*Slovene: [[oni]]
*Spanish: [[ellos]] ''m'', [[ellas]] ''f''
*Swahili: [[wao]]
*Swedish: [[de]], [[dom]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[nila]] ''(ng form)'', [[kanila]] ''(sa form)'', [[sila]] ''(unmarked form)''
*Thai: [[พวกเขา]] (phuààk kháo)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[ol]]
*Vietnamese: [[họ]]
*[[!Xũ]]: [[si]] (people), [[hi]] (animals, things)
*[[Yoruba]]: [[wọ́n]] ''(weak pronoun)'', [[àwọn]] ''(strong pronoun)''

[[Category:English third person pronouns]]

[[ja:They]]
[[pl:They]]