==English==

===Etymology===
From [[throw dirt]] + [[enough]] + [[and]] + [[some]] + [[will]] + [[stick]] (proverb c1650, popularised by [[w:Voltaire|Voltaire]] [François-Marie Arouet] in the 18th century).

===Verb===
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
'''throw dirt enough, and some will stick'''

#If enough [[allegation]]s are made about someone or something, then even if they are all [[untrue]], people's [[opinion]] of the person or thing will be [[diminish]]ed.
#*'''1759''', John Wesley, ''letter to John Downes, Rector of St. Michael's, Wood Street'', read at Wesley Center Online at [http://wesley.nnu.edu/john_wesley/letters/1766.htm] on 14 Oct 06.
#*:I hope...that you are ignorant of the whole affair, and are so bold only because you are blind...And blind enough; so that you blunder on through thick and thin, bespattering all that come in your way, according to the old, laudable maxim, ''''Throw dirt enough, and some will stick.''''
#*'''1857''', Thomas Hughes, ''Tom Brown's Schooldays'', read at [http://www.fullbooks.com/The-World-s-Greatest-Books-Volume-V-2.html fullbooks.com] on 14 Oct 06,
#*:But whatever harm a spiteful tongue could do them, he took care should be done. '''Only throw dirt enough, and some will stick'''.
#*'''1864''', John Henry Newman, ''Apologia Pro Vita Sua'', Penguin Classics (1994), [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0140433740&id=lYi58Tv9XpIC&pg=PA10&lpg=PA10&dq=%22%27%27throw+dirt+enough,+and+some+will+stick%27%27%22&num=100&sig=X6qGaXwO565DIdKSMz7jcl3N6yw  p. 10],
#*:Archbishop Whately used to say ‘'''Throw dirt enough, and some will stick''';' well, will stick, but not, will stain. I think he used to mean ‘stain,' and I do not agree with him.

====Synonyms====
*There's no smoke without fire.