==English==
===Pronunciation===
MW-ASCII: /'thrOd/
 
===Etymology===
Regularized form of [[thrown]] and [[threw]].
 
===Adjective===
'''throwed'''
# ''(dialectal)'' [[thrown|Thrown]].
# ''(dialectal)'' [[threw|Threw]].

===Quotations===
'''thrown'''
{{timeline|1800s=1852<br>1885|1900s=1989<br>1991|2000s=2004}}
* '''1852-3,''' [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''Bleak House'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0141439726&id=uaUqBGaoc6oC&pg=PA422&lpg=PA422&sig=elpsd_WVuFbI8SImzmJRWaqlZcI]
*: If they want a light-weight, to be '''throwed''' for practice, Cornwall, Devonshire, or Lancashire, let ’em throw me.
* '''1885,''' [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''Adventures of Huckleberry Finn'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0142437174&id=NR6JPRi3eucC&pg=PA207&lpg=PA207&sig=CrtvHJtjvWHDeTu67XcC05KVp8M]
*: I reckoned Tom Sawyer couldn’t a done it no neater himself. Of course he would a '''throwed''' more style into it, but I can’t do that very handy, not being brung up to it.
* '''1989,''' Ramon F Adams, ''The Old-Time Cowhand'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0803259174&id=NAFA_x2KgQUC&pg=PA233&lpg=PA233&sig=EvRtCEaftVadw4qcxRJ_iAtFiRk]
*: The Blocker was a versatile loop. It could be '''throwed''' from hossback or afoot, and could be used for a head ketch, heelin’, or forefootin’.
* '''1991,''' Ben K Green, ''Some More Horse Tradin’'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0803270925&id=IkYA69A0Me0C&pg=PA29&lpg=PA29&sig=qMZfjtlvPlVLAVpmCe6OsQkXkuw]
*: I’d lost my hat, tore my fingernails off on the saddle horn, and was damn near '''throwed''' when he lost his breath and throwed his head up and stopped!
* '''2004,''' Peter Golenbock, ''Nascar Confidential'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0760314837&id=krK2mvd5Z9YC&pg=PA16&lpg=PA16&sig=qQvhwWZ9WZE-xm2jk0KqzcnN5gI]
*: They had one motel in that town, and friends of ours owned it, but we got '''throwed''' out of it before it got dark after they got to fighting.

'''threw'''
{{timeline|1800s=1885|1900s=1988<br>1991|2000s=2003}}
* '''1885,''' [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''Adventures of Huckleberry Finn'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0142437174&id=NR6JPRi3eucC&pg=PA94&lpg=PA94&sig=-Jkv0W916hZHnVGnnTLrca-Pkm8]
*: I come a booming down on a cut bank with smoky ghosts of big trees on it, and the current '''throwed''' me off to the left and shot by, amongst a lot of snags that fairly roared, the current was tearing by them so swift.
* '''1988,''' Leonard W Roberts, ''South from Hell-Fer-Sartin'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0813101751&id=BYS5y3vDbK8C&pg=PA115&lpg=PA115&sig=dKLozBpwn0MPqM2mwpFAYncJOD8]
*: The Devil looked around and he picked the next biggest one he could find and he '''throwed''' it over the fence.
* '''1991,''' Ben K Green, ''Some More Horse Tradin’'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0803270925&id=IkYA69A0Me0C&pg=PA29&lpg=PA29&sig=qMZfjtlvPlVLAVpmCe6OsQkXkuw]
*: I’d lost my hat, tore my fingernails off on the saddle horn, and was damn near throwed when he lost his breath and '''throwed''' his head up and stopped!
* '''2003,''' Mark Harris, ''The Southpaw'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0803273371&id=ZcXrSFki8LYC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&sig=luXWpLfgFo79Qyrz6QZ0yzyqrrU]
*: I '''throwed''' slow and easy, and I felt in my mind like the sight of Pop out there on that same pitching hill.