==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Alternative spellings===
The original spelling, starting in 1889, is "[[Tiddledy-Winks]]", which was the original trademarked name for the game in the UK and also used in the USA. "Tiddlywinks" is the preferred modern spelling; the earliest known use of this spelling is 1894. The spelling "[[Tidley Winks]]" was common in England in the 1930s to late 1940s.  Many other spellings are also encountered.

*[[Tiddledy-Winks]]
*[[Tidley Winks]]
*[[Tiddley Winks]]

===Noun===
'''tiddlywinks''' ''singular''

#A game in which the objective is to shoot [[wink]]s into a cup or at a target by flicking them with a shooter (nowadays called a [[squidger]]) from a surface.
#A competitive partnership game in which the objective is to gain an advantage over opponents by [[squop]]ping opponent [[wink]]s and by [[squidging]] friendly [[wink]]s into a pot.

====Quotations====
#* '''1890''' (Jan. 18): ''Notes and Queries'' magazine
#*: Lately a game has been introduced here bearing the name of ''''tiddledywinks''''.
#* '''1891''' (Dec. 6): ''New York Times'', Macy's advertisement, page 1
#*: All the newest and most popular games of the season, including ... '''TIDDLE DE WINKS''' ...
#* '''1892''': Journal of Lady Emily (Lytton) Lutyens, as published in ''A Blessed Girl'' (1953)
#*: After dinner we all played the most exciting game ever invented, called '''Tiddleywinks'''.
#* '''1894''' (Aug.):  ''Contemporary Review'' magazine, page 246
#*: For when school was done and work over the children gathered in the brilliantly lit, hot-pipe-heated rooms and played draughts, bagatelle, lotto, or '''tiddly-winks'''.
#* '''1909''': ''Century Dictionary Supplement''
#*: '''tiddledewinks''', n. A trivial game in which the players try to make small counters jump into a box, by pressing on their edges with another counter.
#* '''1922''': [[James Joyce]], ''Ulysses''
#*: ... parlour games (dominos, halma, '''tiddledywinks'''... )
#* '''1926''' (Sep.):  ''Bookman'' magazine, page 90
#*: The great realist plays an amusing game of '''tiddlywinks''' in the north woods.
#* '''1937''':  [[Eric Partridge]], ''A Dictionary of Slang and Unconvential English''
#*: '''Tiddlywinks''' is considered a feeble, futile game.
#* '''1957''' (Dec. 17): ''The Times'', London
#*: The subtle art of '''tiddlywinks'''.  Here all depends upon the steady hand, the strong nerve, the experienced eye... Tempers are never lost.
#* '''1958''':  ''The Observer'' Saying of the Year, London
#*: We look to '''tiddlywinks''' to get us back to the primeval simplicity of life. -- Rev. E. A. Willis
#* '''1969''' (Sept.):  ''Playboy'', page 195
#*: MIT's two saving graces are the '''tiddlywinks''' championship of North America and incredible graffiti.
====Translations====
In most languages other than English, the name of the game translates as "game of the flea".  (Exceptions below are Afrikaans (translates to "disc game") and Esperanto ("hop disc").)
Courtesy http://www.tiddlywinks.org/lexicon/tw_in_other_languages.html
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[skyfiespel]]   
*Croatian: [[skakanje buha]]  
*Danish: [[loppespil]](l)   
*Dutch: [[vlooienspel]]   
*Esperanto: [[saltodiskoj]]   
*Finnish: [[kirppupeli]], [[juoksupeli]]
*French: [[jeu de puce]]
*German: [[Flohspiel]], [[Flohhüpfspiel]] 
*Hungarian: [[bolha-játék]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[giuoco della pulce]]   
*Latvian: [[blusiņu spēle]]
*Norwegian:  [[loppe-spel]] 
*Polish: [[pchełki]]   
*Portuguese: [[jôgo da pulga]]   
*Russian: [[игра́ в бло́шки]] (''igra v bloshki'')
*Spanish: [[juego de la pulga]]   
*Swedish: [[loppspel]]   
*Ukrainian: [[гра в блі́шки]] (''gra v blishki'')
{{bottom}}

===See also===
A complete tiddlywinks lexicon is available at http://www.tiddlywinks.org/lexicon.  The best known tiddlywinks terms are:
{{top2}}
* [[boondock]]
* [[Bristol]]
* [[Carnovsky]]
* [[gromp]]
{{mid2}}
* [[piddle]]
* [[pot]]
* [[squidger]]
* [[squop]]
* [[wink]]
{{bottom}}

===References===

* 1889 (May 15), ''Trade Marks Journal'' (UK), Page 476, Class 49, number 85,500:  TIDDLEDY-WINKS
* Tiddlywinks Lexicon - http://www.tiddlywinks.org/lexicon
* Tiddlywinks - http://www.tiddlywinks.org

[[Category:Games]]