==English==
=== Etymology ===
Anglo Saxon ''t&#0299;d'' time; akin to Old Saxon and Old Frisian ''t&#0299;d'', Dutch ''[[tijd]]'', German ''[[zeit]]'', Old High German ''z&#0299;t'', Icelandic ''t&#0299;'', Swedish and Danish ''[[tid]]'', and probably to Sanskrit ''aditi'' unlimited, endless, where ''a-'' is a negative prefix. Compare ''tidings'', ''tidy'', ''till'' (preposition), ''time''.

For the verb: Anglo Saxon t&#299;dan to happen

===Pronunciation===
*tīd, /taɪd/, /<tt>taId</tt>/
====Homophones====
*[[tied]]

=== Noun ===
'''tide''' ([[tides]])
#''(Obsolescent):'' Time; period; season.
#:This lusty summer's tide &mdash; [[Geoffry Chaucer]]
#:And rest their weary limbs a tide &mdash [[Edmund Spenser]]
#:Which, at the appointed tide, Each one did make his bride &mdash [[Edmund Spenser]]
#:At the tide of Christ his birth &mdash; [[Fuller?]]
#the constant change of the sea level which is caused by the pull of the sun and the moon
#''(From 1913 Webster):'' The alternate rising and falling of the waters of the ocean, and of bays, rivers, etc., connected therewith. The tide ebbs and flows twice in each lunar day, or the space of a little more than twenty-four hours. It is occasioned by the attraction of the sun and moon (the influence of the latter being three times that of the former), acting unequally on the waters in different parts of the earth, thus disturbing their equilibrium. A high tide upon one side of the earth is accompanied by a high tide upon the opposite side. Hence, when the sun and moon are in conjunction or opposition, as at new moon and full moon, their action is such as to produce a greater than the usual tide, called the spring tide, ... When the moon is in the first or third quarter, the sun's attraction in part counteracts the effect of the moon's attraction, thus producing under the moon a smaller tide than usual, called the neap tide.
#:The flow or rising of the water is called flood tide, and the reflux, ebb tide.
#Something which changes like the marine tides of the sea.
#A stream; current; flood; as, a tide of blood. 
#:Let in the tide of knaves once more; my cook and I'll provide. &mdash; Shakespeare
#Tendency or direction of causes, influences, or events; course; current.
#:There is a tide in the affairs of men, Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. &mdash; Shakespeare
#''(Obsolete):'' Violent confluence &mdash; [[Francis Bacon]]
#''(Mining):'' The period of twelve hours.

====Derived terms====
*'''Atmospheric tides:''' tidal movements of the atmosphere similar to those of the ocean, and produced in the same manner by the attractive forces of the sun and moon.
<!--*[[astronomical tide]] idiomatic? -->
*[[ebb tide]]
*[[high tide]]
*[[hurricane tide]]
*'''Inferior tide:''' See under [[inferior]] ''(adjective)''
*[[king tide]]
<!-- *[[land tide]] idiomatic? -->
*[[low tide]]
*[[neap tide]]
<!--*[[oceanic tide]] idiomatic? -->
*[[rip tide]]
*[[spring tide]]
*[[storm tide]]
<!--*[[terrestrial tide]] idiomatic? -->
<!--*[[thermal tide]] idiomatic? -->
*[[tidal]]
*'''Tide day:''' the interval between the occurrences of two consecutive maxima of the resultant wave at the same place. Its length varies as the components of sun and moon waves approach to, or recede from, one another. A retardation from this cause is called the '''lagging of the tide''', while the acceleration of the recurrence of high water is termed the '''priming of the tide'''. See "Lag of the tide", under [[lag]] 
*'''Tide dial:''' a dial to exhibit the state of the tides at any time
*'''Tide gate:'''
** (a) An opening through which water may flow freely when the tide sets in one direction, but which closes automatically and prevents the water from flowing in the other direction. 
** (b) ''(Nautical):'' A place where the tide runs with great velocity, as through a gate.
*'''Tide gauge:''' a gauge for showing the height of the tide; especially, a contrivance for registering the state of the tide continuously at every instant of time. &mdash; [[Brande & C.]]
*'''Tide lock:''' a lock situated between an inclosed basin, or a canal, and the tide water of a harbor or river, when they are on different levels, so that craft can pass either way at all times of the tide; -- called also [[guard lock]]
*'''Tide mill:'''
** (a) A mill operated by the tidal currents. 
** (b) A mill for clearing lands from tide water
*[[tide pool]]
*'''Tide rip:''' a body of water made rough by the conflict of opposing tides or currents
*'''Tide table:''' a table giving the time of the rise and fall of the tide at any place
*'''Tide water:''' water affected by the flow of the tide; hence, broadly, the seaboard
*'''Tide wave,''' or '''[[Tidal wave]]:''' the swell of water as the tide moves. That of the ocean is called primitive; that of bays or channels derivative. &mdash; [[Whewell?]]
*'''Tide wheel:''' a water wheel so constructed as to be moved by the ebb or flow of the tide.
*'''To work double tides:''' See under [[work]], ''(transitive verb)''

==== Translations ====
*'''Dutch''': [[getijde]] ''n'' (1), [[tij]] ''n'' (1)
*'''French''': [[marée]] ''f''
*'''German''': [[Gezeiten]] ''plural'' (1), [[Flut]] ''f'' (high tide), [[Ebbe]] ''f'' (low tide)
*'''Greek''': [[παλίρροια]], [[ρεύμα]]
*'''Indonesian''': [[pasang]] (?)
*'''Interlingua''': [[marea]]
*'''Irish''': [[taoide]] ''f''
*'''Japanese''': [[潮]] (しお, shio)
*'''Polish''': [[przypływ]] ''m'' (''high''), [[odpływ]] ''m'' (''low''), [[pływy]] ''pl'' (1)
*'''French''': [[maré]] ''f''
*'''Russian''': [[прилив|прили́в]] ''m''
*'''Spanish''': [[marea]]
*'''Volapük''': [[taid]]

===See also===
*[[ebb]]
*[[flow]]
*[[neap]]

===Transitive verb===
#To cause to float with the tide; to drive or carry with the tide or stream.
#:They are tided down the stream. &mdash; [[Feltham?]]

===Intransitive verb===
#''(Obsolete):'' To betide; to happen.
#:What should us tide of this new law? &mdash; [[Geoffrey Chaucer]]
#To pour a tide or flood.
#''(Nautical):'' To work into or out of a river or harbor by drifting with the tide and anchoring when it becomes adverse.