==English==
===Pronunciation===
*tīt, /taɪt/, /<tt>taIt</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-aɪt|Rhymes: -aɪt]]

===Adjective===
'''tight''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''tighter''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''tightest''')

#Pushed or pulled together.
#:''My socks are too tight.''
#Of a space, etc, narrow, so that it is difficult for something or someone to pass through it.
#:''The passageway was so '''tight''' we could barely get through.''
#:''They flew in a '''tight''' formation.''
#Under high tension.
#:''Make sure to pull the rope '''tight'''.''
#Well-[[rehearse]]d and accurate in execution.
#:''Their marching band is extremely '''tight'''.''
#(''colloquial'') Intimately friendly.
#:''We've grown '''tighter''' over the years.''
#(''slang, somewhat dated'') Intoxicated; drunk.
#:''We went drinking and got '''tight'''.''
#(''slang'') Extraordinarily great or special.
#:''That is one '''tight''' bicycle!''

====Synonyms====
*(''pushed/pulled together''): [[close]], [[serried]] (''of ranks''), [[tense]]
*(''narrow''): [[narrow]]
*(''under high tension''): [[taut]], [[tense]], under [[tension]]
*(''well-rehearsed and accurate''):
*(''intimately friendly''): [[close]], [[close-knit]], [[intimate]]
*(''slang: intoxicated''): ''See'' '''[[drunk]]'''
*(''slang: extraordinarily great or special''): [[ace]], [[cool]], [[fab]], [[rad]]<!--there are loads more that could be added here-->

====Antonyms====
*(''pushed/pulled together''): [[baggy]] (''of clothing or other material''), [[loose]], [[slack]]
*(''narrow''): [[broad]], [[open]], [[roomy]], [[spacious]], [[wide]]
*(''under high tension''): [[loose]], [[relaxed]], [[slack]]
*(''well-rehearsed and accurate''): [[slack]], [[sloppy]]
*(''slang: extraordinarily great or special''): [[crap]], [[naff]], [[pathetic]], [[rubbish]]<!--there are loads more that could be added here-->

====Translations====

'''pushed/pulled together'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''narrow'''
''See'' '''[[narrow]]'''

'''under high tension'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[tendu]] ''m'', tendue ''f''
*Italian: [[teso]] ''m'', tesa ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''well-rehearsed and accurate'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: extraordinarily great or special'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Adverb===
'''tight''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''tighter''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''tightest''')

#Firmly, so as not to come loose easily.
#:''Make sure the lid is closed '''tight'''.''
#Soundly.
#:''Good night, sleep tight.''

====Synonyms====
*(''firmly''): [[fast]], [[firmly]], [[securely]]
*(''soundly''): [[soundly]], [[well]]

====Antonyms====
*(''firmly''): [[loosely]]
*(''soundly''): [[badly]], [[fitfully]]

====Translations====

'''firmly'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''soundly'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[bien]] (''sleep'')
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[airtight]]
*[[in tight]]
*[[light-tight]]
*[[skintight]]
*[[tightass]]
*[[tighten]]
*[[tight end]]
*[[tightly]]
*[[tightness]]
*[[tightrope]]
*[[tights]]
*[[tightwad]]
*[[uptight]]
*[[watertight]]

[[de:tight]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]