==English==

{{elements|Sn|Indium|In|Antimony|Sb}}
===Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: /tĭn/
*[[IPA]]: /tɪn/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>tIn</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪn|Rhymes: -ɪn]]

===Noun===
'''tin''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural:'' '''[[tins]]''')

#<!--DefNSn-->A [[malleable]], [[ductile]], [[metal]]lic [[element]], resistant to [[corrosion]], with atomic number 50 and symbol Sn.
#<!--DefNFoodContainer-->(''British'') An airtight container, made of tin or another metal, used to preserve food.
#<!--DefNBakingPan-->A metal pan used for baking, roasting, etc.
#:''muffin tin''
#:''roasting tin''

====Synonyms====
*<!--DefNFoodContainer-->(''airtight container''): [[can]] (''especially US''), [[tin can]]

====Translations====

<!--DefNSn-->'''element'''
{{top}}
*[[Afrikaans]]: tin
*Albanian: [[kalaj]]
*Arabic: [[قصدير]]
*Armenian: [[cãlae]]
*[[Basque]]: [[eztainua]]
*[[Belorussian]]: [[волава]]
*Bosnian: [[kalaj]]
*Bulgarian: [[калай]] ''m''
*[[Catalan]]: [[estany]]
*Chinese: [[錫]]
*[[Cornish]]: [[sten]]
*Croatian: [[kositar]]
*Czech: [[cín]]
*Danish: tin
*Dutch: tin ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[stano]]
*Estonian: [[tina#Estonian|tina]]
*[[Faroese]]: tin
*Finnish: [[tina#Finnish|tina]]
*French: [[étain]] ''m''
*[[Frisian]]: tin
*[[Friulian]]: [[stagn]]
*[[Galician]]: [[estaño]]
*Georgian: [[კალა]]
*German: [[Zinn]] ''n''
*Hebrew: [[בדיל]]
*Hindi: [[टिन]] ''m''
*Hungarian: [[ón]]
*Icelandic: tin
*Ido: stano
*Indonesian: [[timah]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[stanno]]
*Irish: [[stán]]
*Italian [[stagno]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[錫]] ([[スズ]], [[すず]], suzu)
*[[Kashmiri]]: [[cëna]]
*[[Kazakh]]: [[къалайы]]
*Latin: [[stannum]]
*Latvian: [[alva]]
*Lithuanian: [[alavas]]
*[[Luxembourgish]]: [[zënn]]
*Macedonian: [[калаj]]
*Malay: [[stanum]], [[timah]]
*Maltese: [[landa#Maltese|landa]]
*[[Manx]]: [[stainney]]
*Mongolian: [[Цагаан]]
*Norwegian: [[tinn]]
*Polish: [[cyna]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[estanho]] ''m''
*Rohingya: [[zermóuni]]
*Romanian: [[staniu]] ''n'', [[cositor]]
*Russian: [[олово]] '' ''
*[[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[staoin]]
*Serbian: [[калаj]]
*Slovak: [[cín]]
*Slovenian: [[kositer]]
*Spanish: [[estaño]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[tenn]]
*[[Tajik]]: [[kalagi]]
*Thai: [[ดีบุก]]
*Turkish: [[kalay]]
*Ukrainian: [[олово]]
*[[Uzbek]]: [[калай]]
*Vietnamese: [[thiếc]]
*Welsh: [[tùn]]
{{bottom}}

<!--DefNFoodContainer-->'''airtight container'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[blik]] ''n'', [[konservenblik]] ''n''
*French: [[boîte]] ''f''
*German: [[Büchse]] ''f'', [[Konservenbüchse]] ''f'', [[Blechbüchse]] ''f'', [[Dose]] ''f'', [[Konservendose]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[barattolo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

<!--DefNBakingPan-->'''metal pan'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bakvorm]] ''m'' (''for baking''), [[taartvorm]] ''m'' (''for cakes'')
*German: [[Backform]] ''f'' (''for baking''), [[Kastenform]] ''f'' (''for cakes''), [[Kuchenform]] ''f'' (''for cakes'')
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*[[Breton]]: [[staen]] ''m'' (1), [[boest]] ''f plural'' boestoù, [[boest mir]] (2)
*Chinese: [[罐头]], [[鑵頭]] (2)
*Greek, Modern: [[κασσίτερος]] ''m'' (1)
*Indonesian: [[kaleng]] (2, 3)
*[[Interlingua]]: ([[cassa]] de) [[latta]] (2, 3)
*Portuguese: [[lata]] (2, 3)
*Romanian: [[cositorit]] (3)
*[[Tok Pisin]]:  tin (2)

===Adjective===
'''tin''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#<!--DefAdjSn-->Made of tin.

====Translations====
<!--DefAdjSn-->'''made of tin'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[staen]]
*Bulgarian: [[калаен]] ''m'', калаена ''f'', калаено ''n'', калаени ''plural''; [[тенекиен]] ''m'', тенекиена ''f'', тенекиено ''n'', тенекиени ''plural''
*Dutch: [[tinnen]]
*French: d'[[étain]], en étain
*{{de}}: [[Zinn]]- (combined with noun), [[zinnen]] (rare)
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: de [[latta]]; de [[stanno]]
*Italian: di [[stagno]]
*Polish:  [[cynowy]] ''m'', [[cynowa]] ''f'', [[cynowe]] ''n''
*Portuguese: de [[lata]], de [[estanho]]
*Romanian: de [[cositor]], din cositor
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|tin||n}}

#<!--DefVTrPreserve-->To place into a tin in order to preserve.
#<!--DefVTrCoverSn-->To cover with tin.
#<!--DefVTrCoatSn-->To coat with [[solder]] in preparation for soldering.

====Translations====

<!--DefVTrPreserve-->'''place into a tin in order to preserve'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[inblikken]], [[conserveren]]
*{{de}}: [[eindosen]], [[einmachen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!--DefVTrCoverSn-->'''cover with tin'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vertinnen]]
*{{de}}: [[verzinnen]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[cobrir]] com [[estanho]]
{{bottom}}

<!--DefVTrCoatSn-->'''coat with solder'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vertinnen]]
*{{de}}: [[vorverzinnen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*[[Breton]]: [[staenañ]] (1)
*Bulgarian: [[калайдисвам]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[stannar]]
*Romanian: [[a cositori]]

===See also===
*[[w:tin|Wikipedia article on tin]]

===External links===
For etymology and more information refer to:
http://elements.vanderkrogt.net/elem/sn.html
(A lot of the translations were taken from that site with permission from the author)

----
==Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /tɪn/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>tIn</tt>/

===Noun===
'''tin'''

#<!--DefNSn-->tin (''element'')

[[Category:Chemical elements]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----
==Rohingya==
===Number===
'''tin'''

#<!--DefCardNum3-->[[three]]

[[io:tin]]
[[it:tin]]
[[la:tin]]
[[nl:tin]]
[[pl:tin]]