{{webster}}
==English==
===Etymology===
{{F.}} ''[[étincelle]]'', spark, from {{OF.}} ''[[estincelle]]'', from {{L.}} ''[[scintilla#Latin|scintilla]]''; compare '''[[scintillate]]''', '''[[stencil]]'''

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪnsəl|-ɪnsəl]]

===Noun===
'''tinsel''' (''[[uncountable]]'')
#A shining material used for ornamental purposes; especially, a very thin, gauzelike cloth with much gold or silver woven into it; also, very thin metal overlaid with a thin coating of gold or silver, brass foil, or the like.
#:Who can discern the tinsel from the gold? - [[John Dryden]]
#Very thin strips of a [[glitter]]ing, [[metallic]] material used as a [[decoration]], and traditionally, [[drape]]d at [[Christmas]] time over [[streamer]]s, [[paper chain]]s and the branches of [[Christmas tree]]s.
#Anything shining and [[gaudy]]; something superficially shining and showy, or having a false luster, and more gay than valuable.
#:O happy peasant! O unhappy bard! His the mere tinsel, hers the rich reward. - [[William Cowper]]

===Adjective===
#Showy to excess; gaudy; specious; superficial. 
#:Tinsel trappings. &mdash; [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]

===Transitive verb===
'''tinsel''' (''third-person singular present tense'' '''tinsels''', ''present participle'' '''tinselling''' (''UK''), '''tinseling''' (''US''), ''past tense and past participle'' '''tinselled''' (''UK''), '''tinseled''' (''US''))
#To adorn with tinsel; to deck out with cheap but showy ornaments; to make gaudy.
#:She, tinseled o'er in robes of varying hues. - [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]]
#(''metaphorical'') To give something a false [[sparkle]].

===Derived terms===
*[[tinseled]], [[tinselled]]<!--adjective; in OED-->
*[[tinselly]]
*[[Tinseltown]]

===See also===
*[[trimmings]]
*[[trim up]]

===Reference===
Webster 1913