==English==

===Etymology===
From French ''[[tabaganne]]'', probably from Abnaki ''[[udãbãgan]]'', influenced by similar words in other Canadian Indian languages. 

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒɡən|-ɒɡən]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#a flat-bottomed sled with no [[runner]]s, as used by Canadian Indians
#*'''1847:''' Abraham Gesner, ''New Brunswick; with Notes for Emigrants: Comprehending the Early History, an Account of the Indians, Settlement, Topography, Statistics, Commerce, Timber, Manufactures, Agriculture, Fisheries, Geology, Natural History, Social and Political State, Immigrants, and Contemplated Railways of that Province''
#*:The old '''toboggan''' has been laid aside, and sleighs or waggons dash along the streets.
#*'''1877:''' John Russell Bartlett, ''Dictionary of Americanisms, 2nd ed. enlarged''
#*:'''Toboggan''' has not yet found its Way into the dictionaries, and there are other ways of spelling it.
#*'''1889:''' John G. Donkin, ''Trooper and Redskin in the Far North-west: Recollections of Life in the North-west Mounted Police''
#*:These animals are harnessed by a padded collar to a light flat sleigh, of skins stretched across a frame of thin wood, called a '''toboggan'''.
#*'''2006:''' Cornelius Osgood, ''Winter''
#*:The steer dog next to the sleigh prevents this by immediately leading off at a sixty-degree angle from the direction the others are going, thereby compensating for the sidewise stress and keeping the '''toboggan''' in the clear until the bend has been passed.
#a light [[sled]], mainly used for sliding down hills for pleasure
#*'''1882:''' Louis Prosper Bender, ''Old and New Canada. 1753-1844: Historic Scenes and Social Pictures, Or, The Life of Joseph-Francois Perrault''
#*:Nothing could be more exciting and exhilarating than a slide, on sleigh or '''toboggan''', from the lofty summit of the ice-mound or cone down to its base.
#*'''1885:''' A. T. Tucker (Alfred Thomas Tucker) Wise, ''Alpine Winter in Its Medical Aspects: With Notes on Davos Platz, Wiesen, St. Moritz, and the Maloja''
#*:The '''toboggan''' may be described as a flat plank turned up at one end.
#*'''1887:''' Marjory Kennedy-Fraser, David Kennedy, ''David Kennedy: The Scottish Singer : Reminiscences of His Life and Work''
#*:A '''toboggan''' consists of two pieces of bark joined side by side and curved up at the front.
#*'''2006:''' Rita Tregellas Pope, ''Landmark Visitors Guide Cornwall & the Isles of Scilly''
#*:Trenance Park has gardens, a '''toboggan''' run, miniature golf and the indoor delights of Water World with its tropical fun pool and flumes.
#(''southern US'') a winter hat or ski mask
#*'''1915:''' William Rush Dunton, ''Occupation therapy''
#*:Suppose we wish to make a pointed cap, such as used to be known as a '''toboggan''' cap, from yarn or worsted.
#*'''1992:''' Wallace Neal Briggs, ''Riverside Remembered''
#*:Sissy bounded back in dressed in a heavy sweater and '''toboggan'''.
#*'''2005:''' Dave Smith, ''Life's Too Short to Be an Underdog...And Other Spiritual Life Lessons I Learned from My Dog''
#*:If you must adorn your dog with a hat, go with a '''toboggan'''-style hat. If It was good enough for Snoopy, It Is definitely good enough for your dog.
#*'''2006''' Frances Stegall, ''Grass Roots: 80 Years in Bailey Co.''
#*:We used an old '''toboggan''' stuffed with cotton for the ball, and it served the purpose very well.
#Something which, once it starts{{italbrac|figuratively}} [[go downhill|going downhill]], is [[unstoppable]] until it reaches the bottom.
#*'''1907:''' Joe Vila, ''The Sporting News'', read in Gordon H. Fleming, ''The Unforgettable Season'' (2006)
#*:McGinnity began to hit the '''toboggan''' in 1906, after he had pitched his arm off the previous year. Last season his efforts at times were painful.
#*'''1948:''' United States Congress: Senate Committee on Banking and Currency:
#*:If we were to hit the '''toboggan''' of a depression, wages would drop.
#*'''1989:''' C.W. Peterson, ''
#*:Farming was on “the '''toboggan'''.” New settlers who had purchased land could not meet their deferred payments.
#*'''2003:''' Jim Harrison, ''Off to the Side''
#*:The fact that I agreed showed that there was no hope of getting off the '''toboggan''' more than momentarily.
#*'''2005:''' Richard Allan (EDT) Davison, ''The Art of the American Musical: Conversations with the Creators''
#*:We all have found out that once a show goes into rehearsal, it's a '''toboggan''' slide and there's not enough time. So we had six months of preproduction meetings.

[[de:toboggan]]
[[fr:toboggan]]
[[vi:toboggan]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#to slide down a hill on a [[toboggan#noun|toboggan]] or other object
#*'''1887:''' E. Katherine (Emily Katherine) Bates, ''A Year in the Great Republic''
#*:Mr. Macaulay, the landlord, insisted upon trying to "'''toboggan'''" us down the mountain on the saddle cloth of one of the horses, an attempt that ended of course in disaster, for the surface was much too small for the three of us, and the snow too soft for the purpose.
#*'''1888:''' Alfred Thomas Tucker Wise, ''Alpine winter in its medical aspects''
#*:The aspect of this patient was greatly changed for the better; she was able to skate, '''toboggan''', and mount 500 feet of Maloja Pass without fatigue.
#*'''1916:''' William John Thomas, (John) Doran, Henry Frederick Turle, Joseph Knight, Vernon Horace Rendall, Florence Hayllar, ''Notes and Queries''
#*:I froze my toes some years ago, while '''tobogganing''', and was unaware of it until I took off my shoe and walked across the room, when the unusual noise on the boards attracted my attention.
#*'''2006:''' Nita Hughes, ''The Cathar Legacy''
#*:The hillside, lined with a coating of wet leaves ready to '''toboggan''' her down the slope, made her grateful for a few saplings that provided handholds.
#to {{italbrac|figuratively}} [[go downhill]] unstoppably until one reaches the bottom.
#*'''1945:''' US House of Representatives, ''1945 extension of the Reciprocal trade agreements act. Hearings before the Committee on finance, United States Senate, Seventy-ninth Congress, first session, on H.R. 3240, an act to extend the authority of the President under section 350 of the Tariff act of 1930, as amended, and for other purposes.''
#*:A depression in one nation can become the slide on which our civilization would '''toboggan''' into economic collapse.
#*'''2006:''' Keith Dixon, ''Altered Life''
#*:I can't win, can I? You think I'm posh and my folks think I'm '''tobogganing''' down-market faster than the royal family.