==English==
===Noun===
'''ton''' (''plural'' '''tons''')

#A unit of [[weight]] equal to 2240 [[pound]]s in the [[UK]] and 2000 pounds in the [[United States]]
#(''colloquial''; ''also in plural'' '''tons''') A large amount.
#:''I've got a ton of work to do.''
#(''slang'') A speed of 100 [[mile per hour|miles per hour]]
#(''slang'') One-hundred [[pound sterling|pounds sterling]]
#(''cricket'') One-hundred runs.

====Synonyms====

*(''large amount''): [[heap]], [[load]], [[pile]]
*(''one-hundred runs''): [[century]]

====Translations====

'''unit of weight'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''large amount'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[tas#French|tas]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''speed of 100 mph'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''£100'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''one-hundred runs'''
''See [[century]]''

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Finnish: [[tonni]] (1, 2)
*Swedish: ton (1,2), [[tonvis]] (2)

====See also====
*[[w:en:ton|Wikipedia article on the ton]]
*[[long ton]]
*[[metric ton]]
*[[short ton]]

----
==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''ton''' ''f'' (Plural: [[tonnen]], diminutive: [[tonnetje]])

# [[barrel]]
# a unit of [[mass]] (what unit of mass?  ton?  metric ton?)

----
==French==
===Possessive pronoun===
'''ton''' ''m''  (''f'' [[ta#French|ta]], ''plural'' [[tes]]) 

# [[you]] (''second-person singular, used to indicate ownership of masculine nouns or of feminine nouns beginning with a vowel or an aspirated h'')
#:''[[Tu]] [[as]] [[penser|pensé]] [[à]] [[prendre]] '''[[ton]]''' [[livre]]?'' - Do you think to take '''your''' book?
#:'' '''[[Ton]]''' [[écriture]] [[est]] [[joli|jolie]].'' - '''Your''' writing is nice.

===Noun===
'''ton''' ''m'' (plural: '''tons''')

# [[tone]] (''sound of a particular [[frequency]]'')
#(''music'') [[tone]] (''interval'')
#:''[[Il y a]] [[un#French|un]] '''ton''' [[entre]] [[do#French|do]] [[et#French|et]] [[ré#French|ré]]'' - Doh and ray are separated by one '''tone'''.
# [[tone]] (''manner of speaking'')
#:''[[Je]] [[n']][[aime]] [[pas]] [[le#French|le]] '''ton''' [[sur]] [[lequel]] [[tu#French|tu]] [[me]] [[parler|parles]]!'' - I don't like your '''tone'''! ''or'' I don't like the '''way''' you are talking to me! 
# [[tone]], [[shade]] (''of colour'')
#:''[[différent|Différents]] '''tons''' [[de#French|de]] [[rouge#French|rouge]].'' - Several '''shades''' of red.

----
==German==
===Noun===
'''Ton''' ''m''

#clay

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''ton''' ''n'' (''pl.'' ton, ''def. sing.'' [[tonnet]], ''def. pl.'' [[tonnen]])

#[[metric ton]]

'''ton''' ''c'' (''plural'' [[toner]], ''definite singular'' [[tonen]], ''definite plural'' [[tonerna]])

# [[tone]] (''sound of a particular [[frequency]]'')
# (''music'') [[tone]] (''interval'')
# [[tone]] (''att hålla god ton'' = ''to behave well'', also in presence of someone disliked)
# [[tone]], [[shade]] (''of colour'')

[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English units]]