==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[tōl]]''
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-tool.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːl|-uːl]]
===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A mechanical device intended to make a task easier.
# Equipment used in a profession, e.g., ''tools of the trade''.
# {{slang}} A complete idiot.
# {{slang}} Penis.
# {{slang}} A person who uncritically supports and assists established authority. See [[sell out]].
# {{slang}} By association, any contemptible, inadequate, or unpleasant person.
# {{slang}} A person who is used in relationships for reasons other than love.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[اداة]]}} {{Unicode|(’adá:)}} {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[الة|آلَة]]}} {{Unicode|(’á:la)}} {{f}}
*Bosnian: [[alat#Bosnian|alat]] {{m}} (''collective'')
*Bulgarian: [[инструмент]] (instrumént) {{m}} (1), [[средство]] (srédstvo) {{n}} (2)
*[[Catalan]]: [[eina]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[工具]] (gōngjù)
*Dutch: [[gereedschap]] {{n}} (1,2), [[werktuig]] {{n}} (1), [[instrument]] {{n}} (1,2), [[hulpmiddel]] {{n}} (1)
*Finnish: [[työkalu]]
*French: [[outil]] {{m}} (1,2), [[mouton]] {{m}} (5)
*German: [[Werkzeug]] ''n'', [[Gerät]] ''n''
*Hungarian: [[szerszám]], [[eszköz]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[utensile]], [[instrumento]] (1,2,3)
*Italian: [[arnese]] {{m}} (1), [[strumento]] {{m}} (1)
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[道具]] (どうぐ, dōgu)
*Korean: [[연장]] (yeonjang)
*Polish: [[narzędzie]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[ferramenta]] {{f}}, [[instrumento]] {{m}} (1,2,3)
*Romanian: [[sculă]], {{f}}, [[unealtă]] {{f}}, [[ustensilă]] {{f}}, [[instrument]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[инструмент]] (instrumént) {{m}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[алат#Serbian|алат]] {{m}} (''collective'')
*:Roman: [[alat#Serbian|alat]] {{m}} (''collective'')
*Spanish: [[herramienta]] {{f}}
*Swahili: [[kifaa]], [[vifaa]] {{p}} ''(noun 7/8)'' (1,2)
*Swedish: [[verktyg]]
*Telugu: [[పరికరం]] (parikaram)
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To work on or shape with tools, e.g., ''hand-tooled leather''.
# To equip with tools.
# To work very hard.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[изработвам]] (izrabotvam) (1), [[оборудвам]] (oborudvam) (2)
*[[Catalan]]: [[cisellar]], donar forma (1), [[equipar]] (2)
*Dutch: [[bewerken]] (1), [[uitrusten]] (2)
*Finnish: [[työstää]] (1), [[varustaa]] (2)
*French: [[façonner]] (1)
{{mid}}
*German: [[bearbeiten]] (1)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[taliar]], [[cisellar]], formar (con [[utensile]]s) (1); [[equipar]]
*Portuguese: [[talhar]], [[ciselar]], dar forma (com ferramentas) (1); [[equipar]]
*Romanian: [[cizela]], [[da formă]],
*Russian: [[экипировать]] (ekipírovat’), [[оборудовать]] (oborúdovat’)
{{bottom}}

----

==Estonian==
===Etymology===
From German [[Stuhl]]
===Noun===
'''tool'''

# [[chair]]

[[Category:Estonian nouns]]
[[Category:English nouns]]

[[ang:tool]]
[[et:tool]]
[[fa:tool]]
[[fr:tool]]
[[io:tool]]
[[it:tool]]
[[hu:tool]]
[[pl:tool]]
[[sr:tool]]
[[fi:tool]]
[[ta:tool]]