==English==

{{rank|running|garden|domain|888|touch|higher|military|passage}}

===Etymology===
From Old French ''[[tochier]]'' (modern ''[[toucher]]''), from Vulgar Latin ''*toccare'' ‘to knock, strike’, probably of imitative origin.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/tʌʧ/}}
*{{SAMPA|/<tt>tVtS</tt>/}}
*{{AHD|/tûch/}}
*{{audio|en-us-touch.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌtʃ|-ʌtʃ]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|touch|es}}

# ''(transitive)'' To make physical [[contact]] with; to bring the hand, finger or other part of the body into contact with.
#:''I '''touched''' her face softly.''
# ''(transitive)'' To come into (involuntary) contact with; to [[meet]] or [[intersect]].
#:''Sitting on the bench, the hem of her skirt '''touched''' the ground.''
# ''(intransitive)'' To come into physical contact, or to be in physical contact.
#:''They stood next to each other, their shoulders '''touching'''.''
# ''(intransitive)'' To make physical contact with a thing.
#:''Please can I have a look, if I promise not to '''touch'''?''
# ''(transitive)'' To physically affect in specific ways implied by context.
#:''Frankly, this wood's so strong that sandpaper won't '''touch''' it.''
# ''(transitive)'' To physically disturb; to interfere with, molest, or attempt to harm through contact.
#:''If you '''touch''' her, I'll kill you.''
# ''(transitive)'' To [[consume]], or otherwise use.
#:''Are you all right?  You've hardly '''touched''' your lunch.''
# ''(transitive, dated)'' To [[affect]] in a negative way, especially only slightly.
#:''He had been drinking over lunch, and was clearly '''touched'''.''
# ''(transitive)'' To [[steal]], or obtain money; to borrow money from.
#:''I was running short, so I '''touched''' old Bertie for a fiver.''
# ''(transitive)'' To affect emotionally; to bring about tender or painful feelings in.
#:''Stefan was '''touched''' by the song's message of hope.''
# ''(transitive)'' To [[concern]], to have a bearing on.
#:''Stay out of this, it doesn't '''touch''' you in any way.''
# ''(transitive)'' To [[imbue]] or [[endow]] with a specific quality.
#:''My grandfather, as many people know, was '''touched''' with greatness.''
# ''(transitive)'' To disturb the mental functions of; to make somewhat insane.
#:''You must be '''touched''' if you think I'm taking your advice.''
# ''(transitive or reflexive)'' To sexually excite with the fingers; to [[finger]] or [[masturbate]].
#:''Her parents had caught her '''touching''' herself when she was fifteen.''
# ''(transitive, Scottish history)'' To give royal assent to by touching it with the sceptre.
#:''The bill was finally '''touched''' after many hours of deliberation.''

====Translations====
'''make physical contact with'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[لمس]]}} {{Unicode|(lámasa)}}
*Chinese: [[接觸]], [[接触]] (jiēchù); [[轻摸]] (qīng mō), [[摸]] (mō)
*Dutch: [[aanraken]], [[beroeren]], [[raken]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[tuŝi]]
*Finnish: [[koskea]], [[koskettaa]]
*French: [[toucher]]
*German: [[berühren]]
*Hungarian: [[érinteni]], [[megérinteni]], [[hozzányúlni]]
*Ido: [[tushar]]
*Indonesian: [[sentuh]], [[raba]], [[singgung]]
*Italian: [[toccare]]
*Japanese: [[触る]] ([[さわる]], sawaru), [[触れる]] ([[ふれる]], fureru), [[接触する]] (せっしょくする, sesshoku-surú)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[닿다]] (''dah-da'')
*Polish: [[dotykać]] ''[[impf.]]'', [[dotknąć]] ''[[pf.]]''
*Portuguese: [[tocar]]
*Romanian: [[atinge]]
*Russian: [[трогать]] (trógat’), [[касаться]] (kasát’sja)
*Spanish: [[tocar]]
*Swedish: [[röra]], [[beröra]]
*Telugu: [[అంటుకొను]] (aMTukonu), [[తాకు]] (taaku), [[ముట్టుకొను]] (muTTukonu)
*Ukrainian: [[доторкатися]] (dotorkátysja), [[доторкнутися]] (dotorknútysja)
{{bottom}}

'''affect emotionally'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[raken]], [[roeren]], [[aangedaan zijn]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[kortuŝi]]
*Finnish: [[koskettaa]]
*French: [[toucher]]
*Italian: [[commuovere]]
(''dudeurida'') 
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[와닿다]] (''wadah-da''), [[두드리다]] (''dudeurida'')
*Polish: [[wzruszać]] ''[[impf.]]'', [[wzruszyć]] ''[[pf.]]''
*Portuguese: [[tocar]]
*Romanian: [[emoţiona]]
*Russian: [[волноваться]] (volnovát’sja), [[взволноваться]] (vzvolnovát’sja), [[растрогаться]] (rastrógat’sja)
*Spanish: [[tocar]]
*Swedish: [[rörd]]
*Telugu: [[తాకు]] (taaku), [[స్పర్శించు]] (sparSiMchu)
*Ukrainian: [[зворушуватися]] (zvorúšuvatysja)
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
*[[touch a nerve]]
*[[touch base]]
*[[touch bottom]]
*[[touch wood]]
{{mid2}}
*[[touch down]]
*[[touch on]]
*[[touch up]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# An act of touching, especially with the [[hand]] or [[finger]].
#:''Suddenly, in the crowd, I felt a '''touch''' at my shoulder.''
# The faculty or sense of perception by physical contact.
#:''With the lights out, she had to rely on '''touch''' to find her desk.''
# The style or technique with which one plays a musical instrument.
#:''He performed one of Ravel's piano concertos with a wonderfully light and playful '''touch'''.''
# A distinguishing feature or characteristic.
#:''Clever '''touches''' like this are what make her such a brilliant writer.''
# A little bit; a small amount.
#:''Move it left just a '''touch''' and it will be perfect.''
# The part of a sports field beyond the [[touchlines]] or goal-lines.
#:''He got the ball, and kicked it straight out into '''touch'''.''
# A relationship of close communication or understanding.
#:''He promised to keep in '''touch''' while he was away.''

===Translations===
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[触]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[aanraking]] {{f}} (1), [[contact]] {{n}} (1,2)
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[tuŝo]] (1), [[kontakto]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[kosketus]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[toucher]] {{m}} (1), [[contact]] {{m}} (2)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Berührung]] {{f}} (1)
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[αφή]] (afí)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sentuh|sentuhan]], [[raba|rabaan]], [[singgung|persinggungan]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[tatto]] {{m}} (1,3), [[contatto]] {{m}} (2)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[接触]] (せっしょく, sesshoku), [[触覚]] (しょっかく, shokkaku)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[dotyk]] {{m}} (1,3), [[kontakt]] {{m}} (2), [[dotykanie]] {{n}} (4)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[toque]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[прикосновение]] (prikosnovénije) {{n}} (1), [[контакт]] (kontákt) {{m}} (2), [[осязание]] (osjazánije) {{n}} (3)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[toque]] {{m}} (1), [[tacto]] {{m}} (1), [[contacto]] {{m}} (2)
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[beröring]] (1), [[kontakt]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[дотик]] (dótyk) {{m}} (1), [[доторк]] (dótork) {{m}} (1), [[контакт]] (kontákt) (2), [[чуття дотику]] (čuttja dótyku) (3)

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
*[[in touch]]
*[[light touch]]
*[[lose one's touch]]
*[[lose touch]]
*[[out of touch]]
{{mid2}}
*[[touch football]]
*[[touch-kick]]
*[[touch-paper]]
*[[touch-type]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[el:touch]]
[[es:touch]]
[[fr:touch]]
[[io:touch]]
[[it:touch]]
[[hu:touch]]
[[fi:touch]]
[[ta:touch]]
[[tr:touch]]