==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Verbal phrase===
'''[[train]] [[surfing]]'''
#To stand on a the roof of a moving train and surf it like a wave.
#*'''1998:''' Felicity Allen, ''Health Psychology: Theory and Practice'' - Adolescents may be rejected by their parents and feel so worthless that they want to do dangerous things such as ‘train-surfing'. [published in Australia]
#*'''1999:''' Deborah Lupton, ''Risk'' - It is also evident in the words of a sixteen-year-old Australian boy discussing the pleasure of ‘train-surfing', or riding a moving train on its roof. [published in UK]
#*'''a2006:''' Mary Deyo, ''Jinx Magazine, read at [http://www.jinxmagazine.com/train_surfing.html ] on [[14 May]] [[2006]]'' - In 1989 alone gruesome '''train surfing''' accidents killed 150 Brazilian kids and injured 170 more. ... Attempts to stop train surfing have proved ineffective. ... [published in USA]
#*'''2006:''' ''Weekend Argus 14 May 2006 p.8.'' - An 18 year old boy was electrocuted yeaterday while "'''train surfing'''" in Soweto yesterday, emergency services said. The boy had been standing on the roof of the train... According to emergency services, the boys wait until the train is travelling slowly and climb onto the roof and ride it like a surf board. [published in South Africa] 
#To hang on to the sides or back of a moving train
#*'''1998:''' Marc D Feldman, Jacqueline M Feldman, ''Stranger Than Fiction: When Our Minds Betray Us'' - "Subway surfing", "[[w:Car surfing|car surfing]]" and "'''train surfing'''" are new sports among adolescents in the United States, Brazil and Europe, for instance -- but with the thrill of hanging off the speeding vehicles has come the utterly predictable limb loss and death. [published in USA]
#*'''1999:''' Infiltration, ''Infilnews 7, November 1999'' read at [[http://www.infiltration.org/resources-infilnews07.html]] on [[22 May]] [[2006]] - The youth jumped on the platform attached to the train, dismounting a few minutes later. ... According to a Rotterdam paper: "In the Netherlands train surfing is not practiced regularly. In 1997 a French boy was killed when he tried to surf a Dutch train with his friend." [published in Netherlands and Canada]
#*'''2002:''' BBC News, read at [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/2542565.stm]] on [[22 May]] [[2006]] - Tube death blamed on 'train surfing': A man killed in an accident at an underground station was reportedly seen trying to hang on to the side of a train. [published in UK]
#*'''2003:''' Melvin M. Carpio, ''The Web of Darkness'' - We would often try our hand at train surfing, that is, the act of riding outside the train, hanging on the back of the last car, holding on for dear life, while the train is in motion. [published in USA]
#*'''2004:''' Expatica, read at [[http://www.expatica.com/source/site_article.asp?subchannel_id=1&story_id=4722]] on [[22 May]] [[2006]] - A 15-year-old boy was killed on Saturday night while he and a friend "train surfed" ... near Rotterdam. ... One of the boys opened a window of a stationary train at about 9pm and when the train started to move, both of them climbed out through the window and hung onto the train from the outside. [published in UK]