==English==
===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /tɹæp/

===Transitive Verb===
'''to trap'''

====Etymology====
AS. treppan. See {Trap} a snare.

====Meanings====
# To catch in a trap or traps; as, to trap foxes.
# To insnare; to take by stratagem; to entrap. ``I trapped the foe.'' &mdash;Dryden.
# To provide with a trap; as, to trap a drain; to trap a sewer pipe.

===Intransitive Verb===
'''to trap'''

To set traps for game; to make a business of trapping game; as, to trap for beaver.

===Adjective===
'''trap'''
#Of or pertaining to trap rock; as, a trap dike.

===Noun===
'''trap'''

====Etymology====
OE. trappe, AS. treppe; akin to OD. trappe, OHG. trapo; probably fr. the root of E. tramp, as that which  is trod upon: cf. F. trappe, which is trod upon: cf. F. trappe, which perhaps influenced the English word.

====Meanings====
# A machine or contrivance that shuts suddenly, as with a spring, used for taking game or other animals; as, a trap  for foxes.  ''She would weep if that she saw a mouse Caught in a trap.'' &mdash;Chaucer.
# A snare; an ambush; a stratagem; any device by which one may be caught unawares. ''Let their table be made a snare and a trap.'' &mdash;Rom. xi. 9.; ''God and your majesty Protect mine innocence, or I fall into The trap is laid for me!'' &mdash;Shakespere
# A wooden instrument shaped somewhat like a shoe, used in the game of trapball. It consists of a pivoted arm on one end of which is placed the ball to be thrown into the air by striking the other end. Also, a machine for throwing into the air glass balls, clay pigeons, etc., to be shot at.
# The game of trapball.
# A bend, sag, or partitioned chamber, in a drain, soil pipe, sewer, etc., arranged so that the liquid contents form a seal which prevents passage of air or gas, but permits the flow of liquids.
# A place in a water pipe, pump, etc., where air accumulates for want of an outlet.
# A light two-wheeled carriage with springs.  ''No one is stirring yet, but I know where the stable-boy sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out.'' &mdash;Sherlock Holmes.
# A kind of movable stepladder.
#An old term rather loosely used to designate various dark-colored, heavy igneous rocks, including especially the feldspathic-augitic rocks, basalt, dolerite, amygdaloid, etc., but including also some kinds of diorite. Called also trap rock.

====Synonyms====
*[[snare]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[val]] ''f'' (1, 2), [[trapladder]] ''f'' (8)
*French: [[piège]] ''m'' (1, 2)

===Related terms===
*[[entrap]]
*[[entrapment]]

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''trap''' ''m'' (plural: [[trappen]], diminutive: [[trapje]])

# [[stair]], [[staircase]]
# [[kick]]

===Verb===
'''trap'''

# first person singular present tense of [[trappen]]

====Translations====
*English: [[kick]]