==English==
===Etymology===
From Old French word ''[[travailler]]'' meaning "to [[trouble]], to [[suffer]], or be worn out". See also '''[[travail]]'''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-travel.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Intransitive verb===
'''to travel''' (''[[present participle]]'' '''travelling''' (''British''), '''traveling''' (''US''), ''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''travelled''' (''British''), '''traveled''' (''US''))

#To go from one country to another for pleasure or business.
#:''I like to travel.''
#To go from one [[place]] to another; to pass from here to there, to move or transmit.
#:''Soundwaves can travel through water''
#(''basketball'') To move illegally by walking or running without dribbling the ball.

====Translations====
'''go from one place to another'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[putovati#Bosnian|putovati]]
*Catalan: [[viatjar]]
*Finnish: [[kulkea]], [[liikkua]]
{{mid}}
*Old English: [[siþian|sīþian]], [[wadan]], [[faran]], [[feran|fēran]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[путовати#Serbian|путовати]]
*:Latin: [[putovati#Serbian|putovati]]
{{bottom}}

'''go from one country to another for pleasure or business.
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[putovati#Bosnian|putovati]]
*Catalan: [[viatjar]]
*Esperanto: [[vojaĝi]]
*Finnish: [[matkustaa]], [[matkailla]]
*French: [[voyager#French|voyager]]
*Italian: [[viaggiare]]
{{mid}}
*Old English: [[siþian|sīþian]], [[wadan]], [[faran]], [[feran|fēran]]
*Portuguese: [[viajar]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[путовати#Serbian|путовати]]
*:Latin: [[putovati#Serbian|putovati]]
*Spanish: [[viajar]]
{{bottom}}

'''in basketball'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*[[CJK]] Characters: [[迋]]
*Chinese: [[旅行]](1)
*Dutch: [[reizen]] (1)
*Hungarian: [[utazik]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[viagiar]]
*Norwegian: [[reise]]
*Romanian: [[călători]] (1)
*[[Volapük]]: [[tävön]] (- lü)

===Transitive verb===

#To travel throughout (a place).
#:''I've travelled the world.''

===Noun===
'''travel''' (''[[uncountable]] and [[countable]]''; ''plural'' '''travels''')

#The act of travel(l)ing.
#:''space travel''
#:''travel to Spain''
#(''in plural'' '''travels''') Journeys, travel(l)ing.
#:''I'm off on my travels around France again.''
#The amount by which something can move.
#:''There was a lot of '''travel''' in the handle, because the tool was out of adjustment.''

====Derived terms====
*[[travel bug]]

====Translations====

'''act of travel(l)ing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Catalan: [[viatjar]]
*Dutch: [[reis]]
*{{fi}}: [[matkailu]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[viagem]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[viajo]]
*Romanian: [[voiaj]] ''n'', [[călătorie]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''in plural: journeys, travel(l)ing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*{{fi}}: [[matka]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}
[[es:travel]]
[[fa:travel]]
[[fr:travel]]
[[io:Travel]]
[[it:travel]]
[[fi:travel]]