==English==
===Etymology===
Anglo-Norman ''[[treter]]'', from Old French ''[[tretier]]'' (modern ''[[traiter]]''), from Latin ''[[tractare]]'' ‘pull, manage’, from the past participle stem of ''[[trahere]]'' ‘draw, pull’.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/tri:t/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːt|-iːt]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[negotiate]], [[discuss]] terms, [[bargain]] (''for'' or ''with'').
#:''We '''treated''' with Caesar for the surrender of the city.''
# {{transitive}} To discourse on; to [[represent]] or deal with in a particular way, in writing or speaking.
#:''The article '''treated''' feminism as a quintessentially modern movement.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[discourse]]; to handle a subject in writing or speaking; to conduct a discussion.
#:''Cicero's writing '''treats''' mainly of old age and personal duty.''
# {{italbrac|transitive and intransitive; obsolete except in Scotland}} To [[entreat]] or [[beseech]] (someone).
#:''Only let my family live, I '''treat''' thee.''
# {{transitive}} To handle, deal with or behave towards in a specific way.
#:''You '''treated''' me like a fool.''
#:''She was tempted to '''treat''' the whole affair as a joke.''
# {{transitive}} To care for medicinally or surgically; to apply medical care to.
#:''They '''treated''' me for malaria.''
# {{transitive}} To subject to a specific action; to act upon with a specfic result in mind.
#:''The substance was '''treated''' with sulphuric acid.''
#:''I '''treated''' the photo somewhat to make the colours more pronounced.''
# {{transitive}} To entertain with food or drink, especially at one's own expense; to show hospitality to.
#:''I '''treated''' my son to some popcorn in the interval.''

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: tratar

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} A [[parley]] or discussion of terms; a [[negotiation]].
# {{obsolete}} An [[entreaty]].
# An entertainment, outing, or other indulgence provided by someone for the enjoyment of others.
#:''I took the kids to the zoo for a '''treat'''.''
# An unexpected gift, event etc., which provides great pleasure.
#:''It was such a '''treat''' to see her back in action on the London stage.''

[[fr:treat]]
[[io:treat]]
[[it:treat]]
[[hu:treat]]
[[fi:treat]]
[[ta:treat]]
[[vi:treat]]