==English==
===Etymology===
From Old French ''[[#Old French|treble]]'', from Latin ''[[triplus]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/trɛbəl/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛbəl|-ɛbəl]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Threefold, [[triple]].
# Pertaining to the highest singing voice or part in harmonized music; [[soprano]].
# High in pitch; [[shrill]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The highest singing voice (especially as for a boy) or part in musical composition.
# A person or instrument having a treble voice or pitch.
# Any high-pitched or shrill voice or sound.
# A threefold quantity or number; something having three parts or having been tripled.
# (''Darts'') Any of the narrow areas enclosed by the two central circles on a dartboard, worth three times the usual value of the segment.
# (''Sport'') Three victories, awards etc.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|trebl|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To multiply by [[three]]; to make into three parts, layers, or thrice the amount.
# {{intransitive}} To make a shrill or high-pitched noise.
# {{intransitive}} To become multiplied by three or increased threefold.

====Antonym====
*[[bass]]

===Related Terms===
* [[treble clef]]
* [[treble staff]]

====Translations====
'''high spectrum'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[diskant]]
{{bottom}}
'''clef sign'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Violinschlüssel]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}
'''make become triple'''
{{top}}
*French: [[tripler]]
{{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to classify=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Höhen]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[triplo]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[triple]]
[[Category:Musical Voices and Registers]]

[[vi:treble]]