{{wikipedia}}

==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-trim.ogg|Audio (US)}}
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[trymman]]''
===Transitive verb===
'''trim'''
# to [[reduce]] slightly; to [[cut]]; especially, to [[remove]] excess
#:''Place the screen material in the frame, secure it in place, and '''trim''' the edges.''
#:''The company '''trimmed''' jobs for the second time this year.''
# to [[decorate]] or [[adorn]]; especially, to decorate a [[Christmas tree]]
#:''They traditionally '''trim''' the tree on Christmas Eve.''
# {{nautical}} To modify the angle of a vessel to the water by shifting [[cargo]] or [[ballast]].
#* '''1883:''' [[w:Robert Louis Stevenson|Robert Louis Stevenson]], ''[[w:Treasure Island|Treasure Island]]''
#*: The captain made us '''trim''' the boat, and we got her to lie a little more evenly.
# {{nautical}} To modify the angle of a vessel's sails relative to the wind, especially to set the sails to the most advantageous angle.
# {{nautical}} The difference in [[draft]] at the [[bow]] and [[stern]] of a [[vessel]]; the [[manner]] in which a vessel [[floats]] on the water, whether on an even [[keel]] or down by the [[head]] or [[stern]]; [[shipshape]]; to adjust for [[sailing]]; to assume, or cause a vessel to assume, a certain position, or trim, in the water. (FM 55-501).

===Noun===
'''trim'''
# (uncountable) [[decoration]]; especially, decoration placed along edges or borders
#:''Paint the house white with blue '''trim'''.''
# (countable) a [[haircut]], especially a [[moderate]] one to [[touch up]] an existing style
#:''I went to the hairdresser for a '''trim''' and came back nearly bald.''
# {{slang}}: ''(mildly vulgar)'' getting laid; the act of getting some pussy. <!--Yes, that mildly vulgar, no more, no less.  Doesn't work with gender reversed, doesn't work as a verb nor adjective either.-->
#(uncountable} the manner in which something is [[equipped]] or [[adorned]]; especially, of a [[car]]
#:''The car comes in three different '''trims'''.''
# {{nautical}} The [[fore-and-aft]] angle of the vessel to the water, with reference to the cargo and ballast.
# {{nautical}} The arrangement of the sails with reference to the wind.

===Adjective===
'''trim'''
# [[slender]], [[thin]], or physically [[fit]]
#:''He had a '''trim''', athletic figure.''

=== Adverb ===
'''trim'''
# {{nautical}} In good order, properly managed or maintained.
# {{nautical}} With sails well trimmed.
#: ''The vessel sailed '''trimly''' out of harbour.''

----

==Albanian==
===Noun===
'''trim''' ''m''

# [[man]]
# [[hero]]

[[Category:Albanian nouns]]

[[fr:trim]]
[[io:trim]]
[[zh:trim]]