{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/trəʊl/, /trɒl/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒl|-ɒl]]

===Etymology 1===
From Swedish/Norwegian/Danish [[troll#Swedish|troll]], from Old Norse [[troll#Old Norse|troll]], of unknown origin. Compare Swedish [[trolla]], Danish [[trylle]] ‘perform magical arts’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A supernatural being, now especially a grotesque humanoid creature inhabiting caves, hills, or under bridges
# {{slang}} An ugly person of either sex.

=====Translations=====
'''supernatural being'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[peikko]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: troll {{n}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Origin uncertain; compare Old French [[troller]] ‘quest, wander’ (modern French [[trôler]]), Middle High German [[trollen]] ‘stroll’.

====Verb====
{{wikipedia|Trolling for fish}}
{{en-verb}}

# To [[saunter]], especially to [[cruise]] for a sexual partner
#: ''I am '''trolling''' for custom, said the actress to the Bishop.''
# {{cattag|fishing}} To [[entice]] fish with [[bait]]; to [[fish]] using a line and bait or lures trailed behind a boat.
# By extension, to search (for), to draw out, to entice
# To disrupt the operation of an online community.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An instance of trolling, especially, in fishing, the [[trail]]ing of a baited line.
# {{internet}} Someone who [[post]]s to a [[newsgroup]], [[bulletin board]], etc., in a way deliberately intended to [[anger]] other [[poster]]s and draw [[argument]]s, or otherwise disrupt the group's intended purpose.
# {{internet}} Such a deliberately inflammatory post itself.

====Derived terms====
[[Concern troll]]

=====Translations=====
'''posting to a newsgroup'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[trolli]], [[trollaus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
'''troll'''

# Troll (''supernatural being'')

{| border=1 cellspacing=0
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=5 align=center | '''Neuter'''
|-
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! rowspan=2 |
| colspan=2 width=105| Singular
| colspan=2 | Plural
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
| width=105 | ''Indefinite''
| width=105 | ''Definite''
| width=105 | ''Indefinite''
| width=105 | ''Definite''
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Nominative''
| '''troll'''
| [[trollet]]
| '''troll'''
| [[trollen]]
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Genitive''
| [[trolls]]
| [[trollets]]
| [[trolls]]
| [[trollens]]
|}

====Derived terms====
*[[förtrolla]]
*[[trolla]]
*[[trolldom]]
*[[trollkarl]]
*[[trollkonst]]
*[[trollkonstnär]]
*[[trollkärring]]

[[et:troll]]
[[no:troll]]
[[fi:troll]]
[[vi:troll]]