==English==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/trʌk/}}

===Etymology 1===
Perhaps a shortening of [[truckle]], related to Latin [[trochus]], 'iron hoop, wheel'.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A small [[wheel]] or [[roller]], specifically the wheel of a [[gun-carriage]].
#:'''1843''' ''"Put that cannon up once, and I'll answer for it that no Injin faces it. 'Twill be as good as a dozen sentinels," answered Joel. "As for mountin', I thought of that before I said a syllable about the crittur. There's the new '''truck'''-wheels in the court, all ready to hold it, and the carpenters can put the hinder part to the whull, in an hour or two'' — James Fenimore Cooper, ''Wyandotte'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=768645758&tag=073v2&query=truck&id=eaf073v2 Chapter 3.]
#The ball on top of a [[flagpole]].
# {{nautical}} On a wooden [[mast]], a circular disc of wood at the top of the mast, usually with holes or [[sheaves]] to [[reeve]] signal [[halyard]]s.
#:''"But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of every woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-'''truck''' higher than the kelson is low?'' Herman Melville, ''Moby Dick'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=470730770&tag=EAF642&query=truck&id=eaf642 Chapter 9.]
#(''originally US'') Any motor vehicle designed for carrying cargo, including [[semitractor]] trailers, [[van]]s and [[pickup]]s; {{UK}} [[lorry]]. 
#:'''1922''' ''A line of fifty '''trucks''' from the Zenith Steel and Machinery Company was attacked by strikers-rushing out from the sidewalk, pulling drivers from the seats, smashing carburetors and commutators, while telephone girls cheered from the walk, and small boys heaved bricks.'' — Sinclair Lewis, ''Babbit'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=text&offset=431826066&textreg=2&query=truck&id=LewBabb Chapter 1.]
#A garden [[cart]], a two-wheeled [[wheelbarrow]].
#A small [[wagon]] pushed or pulled by hand or ''(obsolete)'' pulled by an animal, of various designs, as with those in hotels for moving luggage, or in libraries for transporting books for reshelving.
#:'''1906''' ''From the doors of these rooms went men with loaded '''trucks''', to the platform where freight cars were waiting to be filled; and one went out there and realized with a start that he had come at last to the ground floor of this enormous building.'' — Upton Sinclair, ''The Jungle'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=579429221&tag=Sinclair,+Upton,+1878-1968:+The+Jungle,+1906&query=truck&id=SinJung Chapter 3.]
#A [[pantechnicon]].
#{{UK}} A flatbed railway car.
# The pivoting frame of a railway car that supports the wheels and allows them to make turns. 
#:'''1913''' ''Far away he could hear the sharp clinking of the trucks on the railway. No, it was not they that were far away. They were there in their places. But where was he himself?'' — D.H. Lawrence, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=427817595&tag=Lawrence,+D.+H.:+Sons+and+Lovers,+1913&query=truck&id=LawSons Sons and Lovers.]''
#The part of a [[skateboard]] that joins the wheels to the deck, usually mounted with a raiser in between.

=====Translations=====

'''vehicle designed for carrying cargo'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[شاحنة]]}} {{Unicode|(šá:ħina)}} {{f}}
*Bulgarian: [[камион]] (kamión) {{m}}
*Chinese: [[貨車]], [[货车]] (huòchē)
*Danish: [[lastbil]], truck ''(slang)''
*Dutch: [[vrachtauto]], [[vrachtwagen]]
*Finnish: [[kuorma-auto]], [[kuormuri]]
*French: [[camion]] {{m}}
*German: [[Lastauto]], [[Laster]], [[Lastkraftwagen]], [[LKW]], [[Lastwagen]], [[Lieferwagen]]
*Hungarian: [[teherautó]]
{{mid}}
*Ido: [[kamiono]]
*Italian: [[autocarro]] {{m}}, [[camion]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[トラック]] (torakku)
*Korean: [[트럭!]] (teureok)
*Lithuanian: [[sunkvežimis]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[caminhão]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[грузовик]] (gruzovík) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[camión]] {{m}}, [[camioneta]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[lastbil]]
*Welsh: [[lori]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''wagon'''
''See [[wagon]]''

'''cart'''
''See [[cart]]''

'''pantechnicon'''
''See [[pantechnicon]]''

'''part of skateboard'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''business, trade'''
''See [[business]] and [[trade]]''

Portuguese: [[caminhão]] (m)

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# ''(intransitive)'' To [[drive]] a truck.
# ''(transitive)'' To convey by truck.
# ''(transitive)'' To travel contentedly.
#:''Keep on trucking!''

'''drive a truck'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[køre]] [[en]] [[lastbil]]
*French: [[conduire]] un [[camion]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[guidare]] un [[autocarro]], guidare un [[camion]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Middle English [[trukien]], from unrecorded Anglo-Norman and Old French words (attested in mediaeval Latin [[trocare]]), of unknown origin.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# ''(transitive)'' To [[trade]], [[exchange]]; [[barter]].
# ''(intransitive)'' To engage in commerce; to [[barter]] or [[deal]].
# ''(intransitive)'' To have dealings or social relationships with; to engage with.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# ''(often used in plural sense)'' Small, humble [[item]]s; [[thing]]s, ''(obsolete'', often for sale or barter.
#:'''1884''' ''There was sheds made out of poles and roofed over with branches, where they had lemonade and gingerbread to sell, and piles of watermelons and green corn and such-like '''truck'''.'' — Mark Twain, ''The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=636457372&tag=Twain,+Mark,+1835-1910:+Adventures+of+Huckleberry+Finn,+1884&query=truck&id=Twa2Huc Chapter 20.]
#:'''1911''' ''It happened in this way, on a day when I was indulging in a particularly greenery-yallery fit of gloom. Norah rushed into my room. I think I was mooning over some old papers, or letters, or ribbons, or some such '''truck''' in the charming, knife-turning way that women have when they are blue.'' — Edna Ferber, ''Dawn O'Hara, the Girl who Laughed'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=303592886&tag=Ferber,+Edna:+Dawn+O'Hara,+the+Girl+who+Laughed&query=truck&id=FerDawn Chapter 5.]
# (''US'') Garden produce, groceries (see [[truck garden]]).
#:'''1923''' ''I obtained my first view of a lunar city. It was built around a crater, and the buildings were terraced back from the rim, the terraces being generally devoted to the raising of '''garden truck''' and the principal fruit-bearing trees and shrubs.'' Edgar Rice Burroughs, ''The Moon Maid'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=123017794&tag=Burroughs,+Edgar+Rice,+1875-1950:+The+Moon+Maid,+1923&query=truck&id=BurMmai Chapter 10.]
# ''(usually with negative)'' Social intercourse; dealings, relationships.
#:'''1890''' '' 'How can I decide?' said I. 'You have not told me what you want of me. But I tell you now that if it is anything against the safety of the fort I will have no '''truck''' with it, so you can drive home your knife and welcome.' '' — Arthur Conan Doyle, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=278979545&tag=Doyle,+Arthur+Conan:+The+Sign+of+Four&query=truck&id=DoySign The Sign of the Four.]''

====Adjective====
{{en-adj|-}}

# Pertaining to a [[garden]] patch or [[truck garden]].
#:'''November 4, 1792''' ''As the home house people (the industrious part of them at least) might want ground for their '''truck''' patches, they might, for this purpose, cultivate what would be cleared. But I would have the ground from the cross fence by the Spring, quite round by the Wharf, first grubbed, before the (above mentioned) is attempted.'' — George Washington, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=700376730&tag=Washington,+George,+1732-1799:+The+writings+of+George+Washington+from+the+original+manuscript+sources:+Volume+32,+1745-1799&query=truck&id=WasFi32 The writings of George Washington from the original manuscript sources: Volume 32, 1745-1799.]''
#:'''1903''' ''"Wid dat, Brer Rabbit 'low dat Mr. Man done been had 'im hired fer ter take keer er his '''truck''' patch, an' keep out de minks, de mush-rats an' de weasels.'' — Joel Chandler Harris, "Brother Rabbit's Cradle", ''New Stories of the Old Plantation'',  [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=338797731&tag=Harris,+Joel+Chandler,+1848-1908:+Brother+Rabbit`s+Cradle,+1903&query=truck&id=HarBrot Chapter 11]

====Usage note for etymology 2====
For this etymology, the word is virtually obsolete. It really only survives as a fossil in the construction '''to have no truck with'''. In the US, the derived term [[truck garden]] is often confused with Etymology 1, in the sense "produce raised to be trucked to market''.

====Translations====
'''trade'''
''See [[trade]]''

===Derived terms===
{{top2}}
*[[hand truck]]
*[[have no truck with]]
*[[monster truck]]
*[[pick-up truck]], [[pickup truck]]
{{mid2}}
*[[tow truck]]
*[[trucker]]
*[[trucking]]
*[[truck stop]]
{{bottom}}


==Swedish==
===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-ar}}

# [[#English|truck]]

[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:Vehicles]]

[[fr:truck]]
[[io:truck]]
[[it:truck]]
[[fi:truck]]
[[vi:truck]]