==English==

{{rank|anything|matter|passed|291|true|friend|herself|year}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/truː/}}
*{{audio|en-us-true.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
'''true'''

#(of a statement) [[concur]]ring with a given set of [[fact]]s.
#(''logic'') A state in Boolean [[logic]] that indicates an [[affirmative]] or positive result.
#:A and B'' is true if and only if ''A'' is true and ''B'' is true.''
#Loyal, faithful.
#:''He’s turned out to be a true friend.'' (See below, "Compound Words and Terms")
#Genuine.
#:''This is a true Parmesan cheese.''
#Legitimate.
#:''The true king has returned!''

====Antonyms====
*[[false]] (1,2,3)

====Translations====
;concurring with a given set of facts (1)
{{top}}

*Albanian: [[vërtetë]]
*Catalan: [[veritable]]
*Croatian: [[istinit]], [[pravi]]
*Danish: [[sand]]
*Dutch: [[echt]], [[echte]]
*Fijian: [[dina]]
*Finnish: [[tosi]]
*French: [[vrai]]
*German: [[wahr]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[igaz]]
*Indonesian: [[benar]]
*Italian: [[vero]]
*Japanese: [[真実]]の (shinjitsu-no)
*Maori: [[pono]]
*Polish: [[prawdziwy]]
*Sardinian: [[beru]]
*Swedish: [[sann]]
*Turkish: [[gerçek]]
{{bottom}}

;A state in Boolean logic that indicates an affirmative or positive result (2)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[waar]], [[ware]]
*Finnish: [[tosi]]
*German: [[wahr]]
*Japanese: [[真]] (shin)
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[prawdziwy]]
*Swedish: [[sann]]
*Turkish: [[doğru]]
{{bottom}}

;Loyal, faithful (3)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[trouw]], [[trouwe]]
*Finnish: [[tosi-]] (''in compounds'')
*German: [[wahr]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[本当]]の (hontō-no)
*Swedish: [[trogen]], [[sann]]
*Turkish: [[sadık]]
{{bottom}}

;Genuine (4)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[oikea]]
*German: [[echt]]
*Japanese: [[本物]]の (honmono-no)
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[äkta]]
*Turkish: [[gerçek]]
{{bottom}}

;Legitimate (5)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[todellinen]]
*German: [[wahr]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[正統]]な (seitō-na)
*Swedish: [[sann]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[صحيح]]}} {{Unicode|(ʂaħíeħ)}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[ver#Catalan|ver]]
*{{ttbc|Cebuano}}: [[matuod]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[真实]] (zhēnshí), [[真的]] (zhēnde), [[正确]] (zhèngquè)
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[vera]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[vrai]] {{m}}, [[vraie]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[igaz]], [[igaz]], [[valódi]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[vera]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[fíor]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[vero]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[참된]] (chamdoen)
*{{ttbc|Romany}}: [[tatcho]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[verdadeiro]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[adevărat]]
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[верный]] (vérnyj)
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[resničen]] {{m}}, [[resnična]] {{f}}, [[resnično]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[verdadero]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''true''' (''plural, no singular'')

# (always with ''the'') those who are loyal or faithful.

===Verb===
'''to true'''

# to [[straighten]]
#: ''He '''trued''' the spokes of the bicycle wheel.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[suoristaa]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[räta]]
{{bottom}}

===Compound words and terms===
*true blue: (adj) faithful, loyal and trustful.  Refers to blue thread, yarn, and fabric formerly prepared in Coventry, England, known to retain the hue longer than similar textile products, which latter useage possibly from an antiquated description of an old professional soldier.
  
*true-heart: (noun) a sweetheart, a betrothed; a trusted, intimate friend.

===Related words===
*[[false]]
*[[truth]]

[[Category:English adjectives]]
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English verbs]]
[[Category:Positive words]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[fr:true]]
[[ko:true]]
[[io:true]]
[[it:true]]
[[la:true]]
[[hu:true]]
[[pt:true]]
[[fi:true]]
[[sv:true]]
[[zh:true]]