{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
# Unknown origin circa 1824; [[OED]] cites publication in 1854. [http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/002586.html]
# Popularised in the premiere episode of the popular television show, ''[[w:The Colbert Report|The Colbert Report]]''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# A variation of ''[[truthfulness]]'' derived from the word ''[[truthy]]'' (''archaic and rare or dialectal'')
# The quality by which something is [[know|known]] or [[believe|believed]] [[emotion|emotionally]] or [[instinctive|instinctively]], without regard to [[evidence]] or [[rational]] thought.  Almost always used derisively via ironic praise.  (Popularised by [[Wikipedia:Stephen Colbert|Stephen Colbert]])
# The quality of [[adhering]] to incorrect concepts one [[wish]]es or believes to be [[true]].  Used as previous.

===Quotations===
* '''[1844] 1854''', ''Memoirs of Joseph John Gurney,'' Joseph Bevan Braithwaite ed. [http://www.hti.umich.edu/cgi/t/text/pageviewer-idx?c=moa;cc=moa;idno=AGV9015.0002.001;view=image;seq=00000449]
*: How delightful have the Scriptures been to me of late seasons! I have been struck with the '''''truthiness''''' which is so evident in their apparent contradictions. These are generally capable of being easily reconciled; but they do indeed mark the genuineness and authenticity of the whole.
* '''[1882] c. 1890''' ''Noctes Ambrosianae,'' cited in ''The Century Dictionary'' [http://www.leoyan.com/century-dictionary.com/cent2jpgframes.php?volno=08&page=6514]
*: '''''Truthiness''''' is a habit, like every other virtue.  There I hold by the Peripatetics. 
* '''2005''', Jacques Steinberg, "2005: In a Word; Truthiness", ''The New York Times'', December 25 [http://select.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=F00617F93E540C768EDDAB0994DD404482]
* '''2006''', Frank Rich, "Truthiness 101: From Frey to Alito", ''The New York Times'', January 22 [http://select.nytimes.com/gst/tsc.html?URI=http://select.nytimes.com/2006/01/22/opinion/22rich.html&OQ=_rQ3D1Q26hp&OP=716faa15Q2FJfr@JRGUhhRJaYYXJYlJaaJhsjpjhpJaaUj!Q5D0Q5DR1v]
*: The mock Comedy Central pundit Stephen Colbert's slinging of the word 'truthiness' caught on instantaneously last year precisely because we live in the age of truthiness.

[[Category:English nouns]]