==English==

{{rank|standing|books|knows|622|try|loved|deal|distance}}

===Pronunciation===
*trī, /traɪ/, /traI/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-aɪ|Rhymes: -aɪ]]

===Verb===
'''to try''' ([[tries]], [[tried]], [[trying]])

# to attempt.
#:''I tried to [[rollerblade]], but I couldn’t''.
# to work on something.
#:''Trying too hard.''
# to taste, sample, etc.
#:''Try this—you’ll [[love#Verb|love]] it''.
# to put on trial.
#:''He was tried and [[execute]]d''.
# to tire.
#:''He was trying...''

====Synonyms====
*(1): [[attempt]]
*(2): [[sample]], [[taste]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[حاول]]}} {{Unicode|(ħáwala)}}
*Chinese: [[試]] (shì), [[試驗]] (shìyàn), [[試作]] (liàngshì), [[經驗]] (jīngyàn)
*Dutch: {{trad|nl|proberen}}
*Esperanto: {{trad|eo|provi}}
*Finnish: {{trad|fi|kokeilla}} (1)
*French: {{trad|fr|tenter}}, {{trad|fr|essayer}} ('''to do''' ''de faire'') (1); (''to taste'') [[déguster]] (2)
*German: {{trad|de|versuchen}} (1), {{trad|de|probieren}} (2)
*Hungarian: {{trad|hu|próbálni}}, {{trad|hu|megpróbálni}}, {{trad|hu|kipróbálni}}
*[[Ido]]: [[probar]]
*Italian: {{trad|it|tentare}}, {{trad|it|provare}} ('''to do''' ''di fare''), {{trad|it|cercare}} ('''to do''' ''di fare'') (1); {{trad|it|provare}} (2)
{{mid}}
*Japanese: {{trad|ja|試みる}} (こころみる, kokoromiru)
*Korean: {{trad|ko|해보다}} (haeboda)
*Marathi: {{trad|mr|प्रयत्न}}(prayatna)
*Norwegian: {{trad|no|prøve}} (1,2,3,5), {{trad|no|tiltale}} (4)
*Portuguese: {{trad|pt|tentar}}
*Romanian: {{trad|ro|încerca}} 
*Russian: {{trad|ru|пытаться}} (pytát’sja)
*Spanish: {{trad|es|intentar}} (1), {{trad|es|probar}} (2); {{trad|es|tratar}} [[de]] ''+ infinitive'' (1)
*Swedish: {{trad|sv|försöka}}
*Telugu: {{trad|te|ప్రయత్నించు}} (prayatniMchu)
*Vietnamese:
*#([[cố]]) [[cố gắng|gắng]]
*#[[thử]]
*#:Usage: verb ([[xem]], [[nếm]], [[đi]]) + thử
*#([[xét]]) [[xử]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[try-hard]]
*[[try on]]
*[[try-on]]
*[[try out]]
*[[try-out]]
*[[try-outs]]
*[[try your luck]]
*[[trying]]

====Related terms====
*[[trial]]
*[[trier]]
*[[tried and tested]]
*[[tried and true]]

===Noun===
'''try''' (''plural:'' [[tries]])

# an attempt.
#:''I gave unicycling a try but I couldn’t do it''.
# an act of tasting or sampling.
#:''I gave sushi a try but I didn’t like it''.
# a score in [[rugby]], analogous to a [[touchdown]] in American football.
#:''Today I scored my first try''.

====Synonyms====
*(1): [[attempt]], [[bash]], [[go]], [[stab]], [[whirl]]
*(2): [[sampling]], [[taste]], [[tasting]]
*(3): [[touchdown]] (''American football'')

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[yritys]] (1), [[kokeilu]] (1)
*French: [[essai]] {{m}} (1,3); [[dégustation]] {{f}} (2)
*Romanian: [[încercare]] {{f}}
*Vietnamese: ([[sự]]) [[cố]], ([[sự]]) [[thử]]

[[es:try]]
[[fa:try]]
[[fr:try]]
[[io:try]]
[[it:try]]
[[hu:try]]
[[pl:try]]
[[fi:try]]
[[sv:try]]
[[ta:try]]
[[zh:try]]