==English==
{{wikipedia}}
==={{initialism}}===
'''TTFN'''

# [[ta ta for now]] (''[[see ya]]'')
#* '''1941-1945:''' A [[catchphrase]] of Mrs Mopp (Dorothy Summers) in several series of the weekly topical comedy British radio programme ''[[w:It's That Man Again|It's That Man Again]] (ITMA)'' -- '''TTFN'''
#* '''1974:''' [[w:Tigger|Tigger]] (voiced by [[w:Paul_Winchell|Paul Winchell]]) in ''Unbouncing [[w:Tigger|Tigger]]'' - Well, I gotta go, now! I got a lot of bouncing to do! Hoo-hoo-hoo! '''TTFN'''! Ta ta for now!
#* '''2005:''' [[w:April_Winchell|April Winchell]] (in message on her website) - '''T.T.F.N.''' I got a phone call a few minutes ago, telling me that my father passed away yesterday.

====Usage notes====
In 1939, initialisms, previously rarely used except by the military, were heard more frequently by the British public.  ''[[w:It's That Man Again|ITMA]]'' satirised them by coining '''TTFN''', a "pointless" initialism (no easier to say than the phrase on which it was based) to use as a catchphrase, which became widely repeated in the UK. Thirty years later, Paul Winchell, following the suggestion of his British third wife, Jean Freeman, improvised it as a signature phrase for the (originally British) character [[w:Tigger|Tigger]] in the [[w:The_Walt_Disney_Company|Disney]] films based on [[w:A._A._Milne|A. A. Milne]]'s book, ''[[w:The_House_at_Pooh_Corner|The House at Pooh Corner]]''. This, in a world now accustomed to them, popularised worldwide a word originally coined to make fun of initialisms.

====References====
Etymology
*''I don't mind if I do'' in ''Liverpool local history'' section of BBC website, at [[http://www.bbc.co.uk/liverpool/localhistory/journey/stars/tommy_handley/catchphrases.shtml]] 
*''Disney's Tigger voice dies at 82'' on ''News'' section of BBC website, at [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/4624547.stm]]