==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/tjuːb/ (''Commonwealth''), /tuːb/ (''US'')}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːb|-uːb]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Anything that is [[hollow]] and [[cylindrical]] in shape.
# An approximately [[cylindrical]] container, usually with a [[crimp]]ed end and a screw top, used to contain and dispense [[semi-liquid]] substances.
#: ''A '''tube''' of toothpaste.''
# {{colloquial}} The [[London Underground]] railway system.
# {{slang}} A tin can containing beer (or other beverage?)
#*'''1995:''' Sue Butler, ''Lonely Planet Australian Phrasebook: Language Survival Kit''
#*:Tinnie: a tin of beer — also called a '''tube'''.
#*'''2002:''' Andrew Swaffer, Katrina O'Brien, Darroch Donald, ''Footprint Australia Handbook: The Travel Guide'' [text repeated in ''Footprint West Coast Australia Handbook'' (2003)]
#*:Beer is also available from bottleshops (or bottle-o's') in cases (or 'slabs') of 24-36 cans (‘tinnies' or ‘'''tubes'''') or bottles (‘stubbies') of 375 ml each.
#*'''2004:''' Paul Matthew St. Pierre, ''Portrait of the Artist as Australian: L'Oeuvre Bizarre de Barry Humphries''
#*:That Humphries should imply that, in the Foster's ads, Hogan's ocker appropriated McKenzie's discourse (specifically the idiom "crack an ice-cold '''tube'''") reinforces my contention.  
#*:[Use as ''beer can'' was popularised in UK by a long-running series of adverts for Foster's lager, where Paul Hogan used a phrase "crack an ice-cold tube" previously associated with Barry Humphries' character Barry McKenzie. (For discussion of this see Paul Matthew St. Pierre's book cited above.)]
# {{surfing}} A wave which pitches forward when breaking, creating a hollow space inside.
#:'''2003''', ''From the boat HT’s looks magical, long grinding cylindrical '''tubes''' that appear to stay open all the way before breaking into a deep channel'' &mdash; waterwaystravel.com review of Hollow Tree’s: [http://www.waterwaystravel.com/mentawai/Macaronis.html]
# {{colloquial}} {{US}} A [[television]].  Also, derisively, [[boob tube]].
#: ''Are you going to sit around all day, just watching the '''tube'''?''

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
*[[cathode ray tube]]
*[[Fallopian tube]]<!-- always capitalised? -->
*[[inner tube]]
*[[intubate]]
*[[picture tube]]
{{mid}}
*[[test tube]]
*[[tubing]]
*[[tubular]]
*[[vacuum tube]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
'''a pipe'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[tub]] {{m}}
*Catalan: [[tub]] {{m}}
*Chinese Characters: [[管]]
*Chinese: [[管]]
*Croatian: [[cijev]] {{f}}
*Czech: [[roura]] {{f}}, [[trubka]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[buis]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[putki]]
*French: [[tuyeau]] {{m}}
*German: [[Rohr]] {{n}}, [[Röhre]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[σωλήνας]] {{m}} (sōlḗnas)
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[cső]]
*Italian: [[tubo]]
*Japanese: [[管]]
*Korean: [[관]]
*Polish: [[rura]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[tubo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[труба]], [[трубка]]
*Slovak: [[rura]] {{f}}, [[trubica]] {{f}}
*Slovenian: [[cev]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[tubo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''the London underground'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[metro]]
*French: le [[métro]] [[londonien]] {{m}}
*German: [[U-Bahn]] {{f}}, [[Untergrundbahn]] {{f}}, [[Metro]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: il [[metro]] di [[Londra]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[londyn|londyńskie]] [[metro]]
*Russian: [[лондонский|лондонское]] [[метро]]
{{bottom}}

'''a tin can'''
{{top}}
*French: [[boîte]] (de [[bière]]) {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[barattolo]] (di [[birra]]) {{m}}
*Russian: [[банка]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[w:Tube|Wikipedia article on tubes]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /tyb/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /tyb/

# (slang) Money

[[Category:Surfing]]

[[de:tube]]
[[et:tube]]
[[el:tube]]
[[fr:tube]]
[[io:tube]]
[[it:tube]]
[[ja:tube]]
[[ru:tube]]
[[fi:tube]]
[[ta:tube]]
[[vi:tube]]
[[zh:tube]]