==English==
===Noun===
'''tun''' (''plural'' tuns)

# A large cask; an oblong vessel bulging in the middle, like a pipe or puncheon, and girt with hoops; a wine cask.
# (Brewing) A fermenting vat.
# An English measure of capacity for liquids, containing 252 wine gallons; equal to two pipes.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:* '''1882''': Again, by 28 Hen. VIII, cap. 14, it is re-enacted that the tun of wine should contain 252 gallons, a butt of Malmsey 126 gallons, a pipe 126 gallons, a tercian or puncheon 84 gallons, a hogshead 63 gallons, a tierce 41 gallons, a barrel 31.5 gallons, a rundlet 18.5 gallons. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', p. 205.
# (Com.) A weight of 2,240 pounds. See Ton. [R.]
# An indefinite large quantity. 
# A drunkard; -- so called humorously, or in contempt.
# (Zool.) Any shell belonging to Dolium and allied genera; -- called also tun-shell.

[[Category:English concrete nouns]]

----

==German==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[tuːn]}}
===Etymology===
Old High German ''tuon'', Old Saxon ''dôn'', compare Dutch [[doen]]
===Verb===
'''tun''' (''third-person singular simple present'' '''[[tut]]''', ''[[past tense]]'' '''[[tat]]''', ''[[past participle]]'' '''[[getan]]''')
#to [[do]]
#to [[make]]

[[Category:German verbs]]

----

==Old English==
===Etymology===
From Germanic ''*tūna-'' ‘enclosure’.  Cognate with Old Frisian ''tūn'', Old Saxon ''tūn'' (Dutch [[tuin]] ‘garden’), Old High German [[zun|zūn]] (German [[Zaun]] ‘fence’), Old Norse ''tūn'' (Swedish ''tun'' ‘fence’).

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /tu:n/

===Noun===
'''tūn''' ''m'' (''pl'' '''tūnas''')
# an enclosed piece of ground, an [[enclosure]] or [[garden]]
# the enclosed ground belonging to an individual dwelling
# the group of houses on an area of enclosed land, a [[homestead]]
# a large inhabited place, a [[town]]


[[Category:Old English nouns]]

[[de:tun]]
[[fr:tun]]
[[io:tun]]
[[nds:tun]]
[[ja:tun]]
[[fi:tun]]