==English==

===Etymology===
{{ME.}} [[tupe]]: origin unknown.

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌp|-ʌp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A male [[sheep]], a [[ram]].
# The head of a [[hammer]], and particularly of a steam-driven hammer.
#* "Those familiar with drop forging are accustomed to sizing drop hammers as 1 ton or 5 ton or whatever. This measure of the size is simply the weight of the '''tup'''. The total weight of the [[helve]] of No 2 is about 6.4 tons." [http://www.topforge.co.uk/Magazines/Hammer2.htm]
#*"This is the modern equivalent of smith forging where the limited force of the blacksmith has been replaced by the mechanical or steam hammer. The process can be carried out by open forging where the hammer is replaced by a '''tup''' and the metal is manipulated manually on an anvil." [http://www.key-to-steel.com/Articles/Art168.htm]
#*Rockwell hardness test: A method of measuring hardness. The hardness is expressed as a number related to the depth of the residual penetration. A test for determining the hardness of a material based on the depth of penetration of a specified penetrator in to the specimen under certain arbitrarily fixed condition of test. A hardness test where the loss in kinetic energy of a falling diamond tipped metal ''''tup'''', absorbed by indentation upon impact of the tup on the metal being tested is indicated by the height of rebound.[http://www.steelcorp.com/term.htm]

====Synonyms====
*[[ram]]

====Translations====
*''See'' [[ram]] ''for translations''
<!--do not add any translations here - add them to [[ram]] instead -->

===Verb===
<!--'''to tup''', '''tupping'''-->
{{en-verb|tupp|ing}}
# The act of a [[ram]] mating with a [[ewe]].
# Regional English {{slang}}{{Obsolete}}?: To [[butt]]: said of a ram.
#*"'''Tupping''' is the term used for when the rams cover the ewes. For our flock, this takes place in November when the ewes naturally come into season." [http://www.langleychase.co.uk/tupping.htm The Langley Chase Flock -explanation of tupping]
# {{slang}} To [[have sex]] with, to [[bonk]], etc.
#*'''1603:''' William Shakespeare, ''Othello, The Moor of Venice, Act 1, Scene 1.''
#*:"Even now, now, very now, an old black ram is '''tupping''' your white ewe." - (used [[metaphorically]] in the play).
#*'''2001:''' Simon Hawke, ''A Mystery of Errors'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0812564545&id=iu5CUMiNTUMC&pg=PA34&lpg=PA34&dq=%22tup+her%22&sig=VIxFsnbUvckFmygYjq6Shc8r9bg]
#*:I love her well enough to '''tup''' her, I suppose. A dangerous bit of business, that.  She is as fertile as a bloody alluvial plain.
#*'''2003:''' Pierre Delattre, ''Woman on the Cross'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0966861256&id=oc7an025f9MC&pg=PA75&lpg=PA75&dq=%22tup+her%22&sig=rbHJq6-MuXoPp0MAdXGJ28SIGdI]
#*:I was the one who convinced her you would not '''tup''' her, and that if you did you would never lie with her against her will.

====Synonyms====
*[[fuck]] 
<!--do not add any translations for the "fuck" sense here - see [[Wikisaurus:sexual_intercourse]] instead -->

====External links====
[http://www.langleychase.co.uk/tupping.htm The Langley Chase Flock - explanation of tupping]

====References====
*1902: Websters: - to butt.
*1986: Consise Oxford: - hammer.
----

==Croatian==
===Adjective===
'''tup'''
#[[blunt]]

[[Category:Croatian adjectives]]

----

==Romansch==
===Adjective===
'''tup'''

# [[stupid]]

[[Category:Romansch adjectives]]

[[fr:tup]]
[[hu:tup]]
[[ja:tup]]
[[vi:tup]]