==English==

{{rank|black|lady|truth|415|turn|hold|cause|close}}

===Pronunciation===
*tû(r)n, EngE: /tɜːn/, AmE: /tɜːrn/
*{{audio|en-us-turn.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:'''Homophones''': [[tern]]
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)n|Rhymes: -ɜː(r)n]]

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|turn||}}

# To rotate (in driving usually 90<sup>0</sup>); spin.
#: '''''Turn''' the knob clockwise.''
# To position by rotating, spinning or flipping.
#: '''''Turn''' back the covers.''
# To change; [[transform]].
#: ''The leaves '''turn''' color in autumn.''
# To rebel; to go against something formerly tolerated.
#: ''The prisoners '''turned''' on the warden.''
# To [[machine]] or shape by rotating the [[workpiece]] against a stationary cutting tool, as on a [[lathe]].
#: ''She '''turned''' the table legs with care and precision.''
# To sour or spoil; to go bad.
#: ''This milk has '''turned;''' it smells awful.''
# ''(usually with "over"):'' To complete.
#: ''They say they can '''turn''' the parts in two days.''
#{{cricket}} (''of a bowler'') to make the [[ball]] move [[sideways]] off the [[pitch]] when it [[bounce]]s
#{{cricket}} (''of a ball'') to move sideways off the pitch when it bounces

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[въртя]] (1), [[завъртам]] (1), [[променям]] (3), [[стругувам]] (5), [[развалям се]] (6), [[прокисвам]] (6)
*Danish: vende (1)
*Esperanto: [[turni]]
*Finnish: [[kääntää]] (1)
*Hungarian: [[fordít]] (1, 2, 3)
*Ido: [[turnar]]
*Old English: [[wendan]] (1,2,3), [[hweorfan]] (1,2,3)
*Swedish: [[vrida]] (1), [[gå emot]] (4), [[svarva]] (5)

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[rotate|rotation]] or [[spin]].
#:''Give the handle a full '''turn,''' then pull up on it.''
# The chance to use an item shared in sequence with others.
#: ''They took '''turns''' playing with the new toy.''
# A [[figure]] in music, often notated ''~'', consisting of the note above the one indicated, the note itself, the note below the one indicated, and the note itself again (see [[w:Ornament]].)
# ''(usually with "around"):'' The time required to [[complete]] a project.
#: ''They quote a three-day '''turn''' on parts like those.''
# A fit or a period of giddiness.
# A change in temperament or circumstace.
#:''She took a '''turn''' for the worse.''
#{{cricket}} a sideways movement of the ball when it bounces (caused by rotation in flight)

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[въртене]] {{n}} (1), [[завъртане]] {{n}} (1), [[смяна]] {{f}} (2), [[редуване]] {{n}} (2)
*Finnish: [[kierros]] (1)
*Swedish: [[varv]] (1), [[turas om]] (2 - construction with verbs)

===Phrasal Verbs===
*[[turn about]]
*[[turn against]]
*[[turn around]]
*[[turn away]]
*[[turn back]]
*[[turn down]]
*[[turn in]]
*[[turn into]]
*[[turn off]]
*[[turn on]]
*[[turn out]]
*[[turn over]]
*[[turn round]]
*[[turn up]]

===Phrases, Expressions, and Idioms===
*[[Buggins' turn]]
*[[bad turn]]
*[[good turn]]
*[[give somebody a turn]]
*[[in turn]]
*[[take turns]]
*[[take a turn for the worse]]
*[[turn back the clock]]
*[[turn in one's grave]]
*[[turn it up]]
*[[turn nasty]]
*[[turn of events]]
*[[turn of the century]]
*[[turn out to be]]
*[[turn over a new leaf]]
*[[turn tail]]
*[[turn the other cheek]]
*[[turn the tables]]
*[[turn the tide]]
*[[turn up one's nose]]
*[[turn up the heat]]
*[[turning circle]]
*[[turning point]]

===Related Terms===
*[[return]]
*[[turnabout]]
*[[turnaround]]
*[[turncoat]]
*[[turning]]
*[[turnout]]
*[[turnover]]
*[[turnpike]]
*[[turnstile]]
*[[turntable]]

==Dutch==
===Verb===
'''turn'''
# first person singular present tense of [[turnen]]; [[perform gymnastics]]

==Icelandic==
===Noun===
'''turn''' {{m}}
# [[tower]]

==Norwegian==
===Noun===
{{no-noun-mu|turn}}
#[[gymnastics]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]
[[Category:Norwegian nouns]]

[[fr:turn]]
[[io:Turn]]
[[it:turn]]
[[hu:turn]]
[[pl:turn]]
[[pt:Turn]]
[[fi:turn]]