==English==

===Etymology===
From ''[[twi-]]'' + ''[[light]]''; ‘second light, half-light’.  Compare Low German ''[[twelecht]]'', German ''[[Zwielicht]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈtwaɪlait/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The soft light light in the sky seen before the rising and (especially) after the setting of the sun, occasioned by the illumination of the earth’s atmosphere by the direct rays of the sun and their reflection on the earth.
#:''I could just make out her face in the '''twilight'''.''
# The time when this light is visible; the period between daylight and darkness.
#:''It was '''twilight''' by the time I got back home.''
# Any faint light through which something is seen; an in-between or fading condition.
#:The twilight of probability. —Locke.

====Translations====
'''light before rising, and after the setting, of the sun'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Dämmerung]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[aamuhämärä]], [[iltahämärä]]
*French: [[crépuscule]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[夕暮れ]] (ゆうぐれ, yūgure), [[黄昏]] (tasogare)
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[crepúsculo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[сумерки]] (súmerki) {{p}}
*Slovak: [[súmrak]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[skymning]] (after setting of sun only) {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''time between daylight and darkness'''
{{top}}
*French: [[crépuscule]] {{m}}, [[entre]] [[chien]] [[et]] [[loup]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''faint light; dubious medium'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Zwielicht]] {{n}}, [[Halbdunkel]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[hämärä]], [[epäselvä]]
*Japanese: [[薄明かり]] (usu-akari)
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[сумерки]] (súmerki) {{p}}
*Slovak: [[šero]] {{n}}
*Swedish: [[skumrask]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[الشفق]]}} {{Unicode|(aš-šáfaq)}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[黎明]] (límíng)
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[schemering]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[crepuscolo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[황혼]] (hwanghon)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[crepúsculo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''twilight'''

# Pertaining to or resembling twilight
#: O’er the twilight groves and dusky caves. —Pope.

[[Category:Time]]

[[fr:twilight]]
[[io:twilight]]
[[hu:twilight]]
[[vi:twilight]]
[[uk:twilight]]
[[zh:twilight]]