{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Alternative forms===
*[[800]]

===Pronunciation===
*wŭn'āthŭnʹdrəd, /ˌwʌneɪtˈhʌndrəd/, /<tt>%wVneIt"hVndr@d</tt>/

===Etymology===
'''1''', used to dial long-distance numbers + '''800''', which was, for a long time, the only North American toll-free area code

===Adjective===
'''1-800'''
#Of [[telephone number]]s dialed in North America, [[toll-free]]; using any of North American toll-free area codes 800, 888,  877, 866, or 855.
#: ''866-555-1234... that's a 1-800 number, isn't it?''

====Quotations====
*'''1994''', Bill Clinton, ''Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States, William J. Clinton'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=0AEjf3Fag4xITj6kSyQTSGX&id=8tfWFK774q4C&q=%22got+a+1-800%22&dq=%22got+a+1-800%22&pgis=1]
*:FEMA has got a '''1-800''' number. 
* '''1999,''' 106-1 Hearing [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=0tCILPy0LnkcoBE8OF0Zi49&id=i0MLwjBn5D4C&q=%22a+1-800%22+-%22a+1-800+number%22&dq=%22a+1-800%22+-%22a+1-800+number%22&pgis=1]
*: We provided a '''1-800''' hot line and a new food stamp tool kit which I would also like to provide for the record.
* '''2001,''' David Wade, Ron Recardo, ''Corporate Performance Management'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN087719386X&id=TPaFRi2aR88C&pg=PA130&lpg=PA130&sig=-PYMM7Uxih8ouqnlTz5_gTOsvKE]
*: Exhibit 9.2 represents a '''1-800''' customer ordering process.
*'''2001''', Mark Graham, ''The Third Day'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN1931468036&id=Ooiu53lcrl8C&pg=PA9&lpg=PA9&dq=I've+got+a+1-800%22&sig=v5I4ZFKO1lewpzt7GYzevrdGJoQ]
*:Once when her husband had got a '''1-800''' number she used to get calls from all sorts of lonely weirdos who had nothing better to do late at night than call up people they didn't know.
* '''2002,''' Elaine Dundon, ''The Seeds of Innovation'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0814471463&id=9mJBdg4dZEwC&pg=PA115&lpg=PA115&sig=MUUnwMzXMfARCie-StrnIevF7d0]
*: Many people have profited from providing easy services that others do not like to do, such as a simple service like barbeque cleaning, superscoopers for cleaning up after dogs, an errand service, or a '''1-800''' tele-tutor service for school-age children who need assistance with their homework.
*'''2003''', Bambi Vincent And Bob Arno, ''Travel Advisory!: How to Avoid Thefts, Cons, and Street Scams While Traveling'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1566251982&id=gNHlLqAuDLYC&pg=PA211&lpg=PA211&dq=%22I+got+a+1-800%22&sig=ZKLbEsUEF3EQ4Fx-e0hIW9BSTdg]
*:“I got a '''1-800''' number.  I could check your credit card right now, and get an approval code, or find out if it's stolen or not.  Just dial a '''1-800''' number and deal with computers."''

====Synonyms====
*[[0800]] (''UK''), [[Freefone]] (''UK'')

===Noun===
'''1-800'''

#''{North America}:'' A toll-free number or a [[long-distance]] number.

====Synonyms====
*1-800 number (''North America'')
*[[0800]] number (''UK'')
*[[0500]] number (''UK, rarely used'')
*[[0808]] number (''UK, rarely used'')
*[[Freefone]] number (''UK'')
*toll-free number (''North America'')