==Mandarin==
{{zh-hanzi|[[三]][[人]][[成]][[虎]]}}

===Etymology===
[[三]] three + [[人]] people + [[成]] produce + [[虎]] a tiger
*''c.'' '''77 BCE - 6 BCE:''' [[w:Liu Xiang (author)|Liu Xiang]], ''[[w:Zhan Guo Ce|Zhan Guo Ce]], Strategies of [[w:Wei (state)|Wei]], Chapter 2'' ([[:zh:s:戰國策|戰國策]])
*:[[龐葱]][[與]][[太子]][[質]][[於]][[邯鄲]]，[[謂]][[魏]][[王]][[曰]]：“[[今]][[一]][[人]][[言]][[市]][[有]][[虎]]，[[王]][[信]][[之]][[乎]]？”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[否]]。”“[[二]][[人]][[言]][[市]][[有]][[虎]]，[[王]][[信]][[之]][[乎]]？”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[寡人]][[疑]][[之]][[矣]]。”“[[三]][[人]][[言]][[市]][[有]][[虎]]，[[王]][[信]][[之]][[乎]]？”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[寡人]][[信]][[之]][[矣]]。”[[龐葱]][[曰]]：“[[夫]][[市]][[之]][[無]][[虎]][[明]][[矣]]，[[然而]]'''三人'''[[言]][[而]]'''成虎'''。[[今]][[邯鄲]][[去]][[大梁]][[也]][[遠]][[於]][[市]]，[[而]][[議]][[臣]][[者]][[過]][[於]][[三]][[人]][[矣]]。[[願]][[王]][[察]][[之]][[矣]]。”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[寡人]][[自]][[為]][[知]]。”[[於是]][[辭行]]，[[而]][[讒言]][[先]][[至]]。[[後]][[太子]][[罷]][[質]]，[[果]][[不得]][[見]]。 (''[[Traditional Chinese|trad.]]'')
*:[[庞葱]][[与]][[太子]][[质]][[于]][[邯郸]]，[[谓]][[魏]][[王]][[曰]]：“[[今]][[一]][[人]][[言]][[市]][[有]][[虎]]，[[王]][[信]][[之]][[乎]]？”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[否]]。”“[[二]][[人]][[言]][[市]][[有]][[虎]]，[[王]][[信]][[之]][[乎]]？”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[寡人]][[疑]][[之]][[矣]]。”“[[三]][[人]][[言]][[市]][[有]][[虎]]，[[王]][[信]][[之]][[乎]]？”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[寡人]][[信]][[之]][[矣]]。”[[庞葱]][[曰]]：“[[夫]][[市]][[之]][[无]][[虎]][[明]][[矣]]，[[然而]]'''三人'''[[言]][[而]]'''成虎'''。[[今]][[邯郸]][[去]][[大梁]][[也]][[远]][[于]][[市]]，[[而]][[议]][[臣]][[者]][[过于]][[三]][[人]][[矣]]。[[愿]][[王]][[察]][[之]][[矣]]。”[[王]][[曰]]：“[[寡人]][[自]][[为]][[知]]。”[[于是]][[辞行]]，[[而]][[谗言]][[先]][[至]]。[[后]][[太子]][[罢]][[质]]，[[果]][[不得]][[见]]。 (''[[Simplified Chinese|simp.]]'')
*:: ''Pang Cong<ref>The king of [[w:Wei (state)|Wei]]'s minister</ref> and the crown prince<ref>During the Warring states period, it was a common practice to exchange crown princes as hostages.  This practice ensured that the various kings would honor their agreements.  In this case, the crown prince refers to the heir apparent to the king of [[w:Wei (state)|Wei]].</ref> were to become hostages at [[w:Handan|Handan]].  (Before leaving,) he asked the king of [[w:Wei (state)|Wei]], "Now if one person said that there was a tiger in the market, would your majesty believe it?"  The king said, "No."  (Then, Pang Cong said,) "If two people said that there was a tiger in the market, would your majesty believe it?"  The king responded, "I would be suspicious about it." (Finally, Pang Cong asked,) "If three people said that there was a tiger in the market, would your majesty believe it?"  The king replied, "I would believe it."  Pang Cong said, "Whereas it is clear that there is no tiger in the market, yet '''three people''' saying so '''produces the tiger'''.  Now then, [[w:Handan|Handan]] is further away from [[w:Daliang|Daliang]]<ref>Present day [[w:Kaifeng|Kaifeng]].  Formerly, the capital of the state of [[w:Wei (state)|Wei]].</ref> than the market, and the number of people that will slander me will be more than three.  I hope that your majesty (is able to) see that!"  The king said, "I (already) know (that without you having to tell me)."  Thus, he bid (the king) farewell, but the slander had already started.  Later on, the crown prince was released, but (Pang Cong) was not granted an audience (with the king of [[w:Wei (state)|Wei]].'' (Wiktionary translation)

<references />

===Proverb===
{{cmn-proverb|ts|pin=sān rén chéng hǔ|pint=san1ren2cheng2hu3|rs=一02}}
# What you are told three times is true. If something is repeated by many individuals, it will be accepted as truth.

====Quotations====
*'''1876:''' [[w:Lewis Carroll|Lewis Carroll]], ''[[w:The Hunting of the Snark|The Hunting of the Snark]]'', Fit the First

 "Just the place for a Snark!" the Bellman cried,
     As he landed his crew with care;
 Supporting each man on the top of the tide
     By a finger entwined in his hair.
 
 "Just the place for a Snark! I have said it twice:
     That alone should encourage the crew.
 Just the place for a Snark! I have said it thrice:
     What I tell you three times is true."

====See also====
[[argumentum ad nauseam]]

====External links====
*[http://www.google.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E4%B8%89%E4%BA%BA%E6%88%90%E8%99%8E&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%B8%89%E4%BA%BA%E6%88%90%E8%99%8E&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]