==Russian==

'''это''' (éto)

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈɛtə/}}

===Demonstrative pronoun===

<ol>
<li>[[this]], [[it]], [[that]]
<ul>
<li>[[я|Мне]] это [[нравиться|нравится]]! (mne éto nrávitsja) — ''I like it!'' or ''I like that!''
</li>
</ul></li>
<li>neuter form of [[этот]]: [[this]]
<ul>
<li><b>Это</b> яйцо — све́жее, а вот <b>это</b> — тухлое. — ''<b>This</b> egg is fresh, and <b>this one</b> is rotten.''</li>
</ul>Cf. [[этот]]/[[эта]]/[[эти]] and [[тот]]/[[то]]/[[та]]/[[те]]</li>
</ol>

===Particle===

<ol>
<li>Used as subject: it (is), this (is), that (is), these (are), those (are).
<ul>
<li><b>Это</b> — [[учитель]] (éto—učítel’) — ''<b>This</b> is the teacher.''</li>
<li><b>Это</b> — [[брат]] [[и]] [[сестра]] (éto—brat i sestrá) — ''<b>They</b> are brother and sister.''</li>
<li><b>Это</b> [[не]] [[молоко]], [[а]] [[кефир]] (éto ne molokó, a kefír) — ''<b>This</b> is not milk, but [[kefir]].''</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Used to connect subject and predicate, as kind of a topic or subject marker. (However, as opposed to actual topic markers such as [[は]] in Japanese, ‘это’ can be omitted without changing the meaning or breaking the sentence structure.) Does not get translated into English.
<ul>
<li>Соевое молоко — (<b>это</b>) напиток, полученный из зёрен сои. — ''Soya milk is a beverage produced from soybeans.''</li>
</ul></li>
</ol>

Note that all of the above examples are ellipses in which the actual verb ([[быть|есть]] — is, or [[быть|суть]] — are) has been omitted, which is typical for Russian. Oftentimes, the omitted verb is replaced by a dash. ‘Это’ does not replace the verb or act as a verb.

===Interjection===

[[err]], [[ehm]]; equivalent to the German [[dings]]

* Я, это, не купил ничего. — ''I am, err, I haven't bought anything.''

===Compounds===

* [[вот это]] (pronoun/particle) — this here, this over here/there
* [[вот это да]] (interjection) — [[wow]]
* [[при этом]] (adverb) — [[in the process]], [[in doing so]];  on top of that, [[withal]], for good measure
* [[после этого]] (adverb) — [[afterwards]], [[thereafter]]
* [[в это время]] (adverb) — at the time, at that time; [[meanwhile]], in the mean time

[[Category:Russian pronouns]]
[[Category:ru:Interjections]]
[[Category:Russian particles]]

[[fr:это]]
[[hy:это]]
[[io:это]]
[[hu:это]]
[[pl:это]]
[[ru:это]]
[[zh:это]]