{{zh-forms|[[周瑜打黄盖]]|[[周瑜]][[打]][[黃蓋]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
From the ''[[w:Romance of the Three Kingdoms|Romance of the Three Kingdoms]]''<br>
Literally: [[w:Zhou Yu|Zhou Yu]] beats [[w:Huang Gai|Huang Gai]]
*This is the first part of a [[歇後語]].  The second part is [[一]][[個]][[願]][[打]]，[[一]][[個]][[願]][[挨]] (one is willing to give a beating, and one is willing to take a beating).  [[w:Zhou Yu|Zhou Yu]] wanted [[w:Huang Gai|Huang Gai]], his subordinate, to pretend to defect to [[w:Cao Cao|Cao Cao]]'s side so that [[w:Huang Gai|Huang Gai]] could gain [[w:Cao Cao|Cao Cao]]'s trust.  This allowed [[w:Huang Gai|Huang Gai]] to set fire to [[w:Cao Cao|Cao Cao]]'s fleet during the [[w:Battle of Red Cliffs|Battle of Red Cliffs]], forcing [[w:Cao Cao|Cao Cao]] to retreat.  [[w:Zhou Yu|Zhou Yu]] beat [[w:Huang Gai|Huang Gai]] in front of [[w:Cao Cao|Cao Cao]]'s spies so that they would not be suspicious.

===Idiom ([[歇後語]])===
{{PAGENAME}} (''[[Pinyin]]'' Zhōu Yú dă Huáng Gài)

# describes a situation in which one person is willing to [[abuse]] another person, while the other person is willing to [[bear]] the [[abuse]]
# both parties agree of free will, mutual consent
#: ''[[政策]][[也]][[只]][[能]][[杜絕]][[那]][[些]][[已經]][[存在]][[的]][[明顯]][[欺詐]][[手段]]，[[那]][[些]][[靠]][[耍]][[手段]][[發財]][[的]][[商家]][[總]][[會]][[想]][[出]][[新]][[的]][[欺詐]][[形式]][[繼續]][[他們]][[的]][[收費]][[業務]]。[[我們]][[需要]][[做]][[的]][[就]][[是]][[做]][[事]][[之]][[前]][[想]][[清楚]]，[[是否]][[愿意]][[承擔]][[該]][[業務]][[的]][[費用]][[和]][[可能]][[出現]][[的]][[后果]]，[[之后]][[就]][[不]][[要]][[再]][[有]][[什么]][[抱怨]]。[[運營商]][[和]][[SP]][[要]][[做]][[的]]，[[恐怕]][[就]][[只]][[有]][[憑]][[良心]][[做]][[事]][[了]]。[[最終]][[的]][[狀態]][[就]][[將]][[是]]'''周瑜打黃蓋'''──[[一]][[個]][[愿]][[打]][[一]][[個]][[愿]][[挨]]，[[大家]][[一起]][[參與]]，[[圖]][[個]][[輕松]][[娛樂]]。[[我們]][[也]][[不要]][[只]][[是]][[抱怨]][[短信]][[業務]][[的]][[負面]][[影響]]，[[畢竟]][[在]][[參與]][[的]][[同時]]，[[你]][[已經]][[收獲]][[了]][[一]][[份]][[快樂]]﹗''[http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:oO3Ob62jhiUJ:ccidnet.msn.com.cn/art/2229/20060213/427499_1.html+%22%E5%91%A8%E7%91%9C%E6%89%93%E9%BB%84%E7%9B%96%22+site:.cn&hl=zh-CN&gl=cn&ct=clnk&cd=27]
#: ''Policies can only be effective at putting a stop to the obvious scams that are already in existence.  Businesses who rely on playing tricks to get rich can always find new cons to continue their fee collection operations.  What we must do is think carefully before we act, and decide if we still want to accept the possible consequences of paying the fees charged by such businesses.  Once we accept the fees, we no longer have a right to complain.  Telecommunications providers and ISP's are really only bound by their own consciences.  In the end, it's like the story about '''[[w:Zhou Yu|Zhou Yu]] giving [[w:Huang Gai|Huang Gai]] a beating''': one willingly gave the beating, and one willingly received the beating.  In other words, both sides are willing accomplices in the pursuit of frivolous entertainment.  We really have no right to complain about the negative effects of text message fee scams.  After all, as long as you are voluntarily participating, you are reaping a little bit of happiness!''

===Related terms===
*[[亮相情願]]
===References===
*''Less than 2,000 hits may be an indicator that this term is not commonly used.''
**[http://www.google.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E5%91%A8%E7%91%9C%E6%89%93%E9%BB%84%E7%9B%96&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%91%A8%E7%91%9C%E6%89%93%E9%BB%83%E8%93%8B&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]
*[http://www.ourlib.cn/dict/7/周瑜打黄盖.html Qiānsōucíbà Hànyǔ Cídiǎn (千搜词霸汉语词典)]

[[Category:zh-tw:Idioms|口05{{PAGENAME}}]]
[[Category:zh-tw:Xiehouyu|口05{{PAGENAME}}]]