{{zh-forms|[[天涯]][[若]][[比邻]]|[[天涯若比鄰]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
Literally: the far ends of heaven are like next door
*''c.'' '''647 – 675:''' [[w:Wang Bo|Wang Bo]], ''送杜少府之任蜀州'' (Seeing off Vice-[[prefect]] Du on the occasion of his appointment to the state of [[w:Shu (state)|Shu]])
*: [[城阙]][[辅]][[三秦]]，[[风烟]][[望]][[五]][[津]]。[[与]][[君]][[离别]][[意]]，[[同]][[是]][[宦]][[游]][[人]]。 [[海内]][[存]][[知己]]，'''天涯若比邻'''。[[无]][[为]][[在]][[歧路]]，[[儿女]][[共]][[沾]][[巾]]。
*:: The watch towers<ref>Most commentaries explain that [[城阙]] (watch towers on the city walls) is a reference to the capital city of [[w:Chang'an|Chang'an]].  One other possibility is that it refers to the watch towers of the town where Vice-[[prefect]] Du is to be assigned.  According to this interpretation, the author is expressing praise for the prestige of his friend's future assignment (''lit.'' The watch towers of the town where you will be assigned provide protection to the three Qin states).</ref> are protected by the three Qin states<ref>[[w:Former Qin|Former Qin]], [[w:Later Qin|Later Qin]] and [[w:Western Qin|Western Qin]]</ref>, I can make out the land<ref>Some commentaries explain that [[风烟]] was a synonym for [[风景]] (landscape).  This is the interpretation used here.</ref> of the five crossings<ref>A reference to the five ferry crossings of the [[w:Minjiang River (Sichuan)|Minjiang River (Sichuan)]].</ref> in the distance.  My mood (is somber) as I part from you, We are both officials traveling (far from home).  When one has a close friend in this world, '''The far ends of heaven are like next door'''.   (Therefore, when we reach the) fork in the road (where we must part), let us not exchange kerchiefs moistened (with tears like) women and children.  (Wiktionary translation)

====Notes====
<references />

===Idiom===
{{cmn-idiom|s|pin=tiānyá ruò bìlín|pint=tian1ya2ruo4bi4lin2|tra=天涯若比鄰|sim=天涯若比邻|rs=大01}}
# to feel a closeness to a friend or loved one despite being separated by a great distance (this phrase is often used when talking about the internet, long-distance phones etc)

===References===
*[http://www.qingshi.net/news_view.asp?newsid=2810 ''唐诗鉴赏 Apreciating Tang Poetry'' (www.qingshi.net, 2005, 施蜇存 Shi Zhecun)]
*[http://www.epochtimes.com/b5/3/10/13/c15093.htm ''唐詩欣賞 Tang Poetry Apreciation'', (www.epochimes.com, 2003, 文思格 Wen Sige)]

===External links===
*[http://www.google.com.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E5%A4%A9%E6%B6%AF%E8%8B%A5%E6%AF%94%E9%82%BB&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%A4%A9%E6%B6%AF%E8%8B%A5%E6%AF%94%E9%84%B0&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]
*[http://140.111.34.46/cgi-bin/dict/GetContent.cgi?Database=dict&DocNum=42468&GraphicWord=yes&QueryString=天涯若比鄰 國語辭典]