{{zh-forms|[[不]][[得]][[其]][[门]][[而]][[入]]|[[不得其門而入]]}}
==Chinese==
===Mandarin===
[[Pinyin]]: bù dé qí mén ér rù

===Etymology===
*From the ''[[w:Analects of Confucius|Analects of Confucius]]''
#: ''[[叔孙武叔]][[语]][[大夫]][[于]][[朝]]，[[曰]]：“[[子贡]][[贤]][[于]][[仲尼]]。”[[子服景伯]][[以]][[告]][[子贡]]。[[子贡]][[曰]]：“[[譬]][[之]][[宫]][[墙]]，[[赐]][[之]][[墙]][[也]][[及]][[肩]]，[[窥见]][[室]][[家]][[之]][[好]]。[[夫子]][[之]][[墙]][[数]][[仞]]，'''不得其门而入'''，[[不]][[见]][[宗庙]][[之]][[美]]，[[百]][[官]][[之]][[富]]。[[得]][[其]][[门]][[者]][[或]][[寡]][[矣]]。[[夫子]][[之]][[云]]，[[不]][[亦]][[宜]][[乎]]！”'' 
#: ''(The high official) Shusun Wushu remarked to the other officials at court, "Zi Gong surpasses his master (Confucius) in ability."  Zifu Jingbo reported this to Zi Gong.  Zi Gong said, "I will use the analogy of a wall; the wall that I have built comes up to my shoulders.  One can get a glimpse of the beauty inside my house.  My master's wall is very high; if you are '''unable to enter through the gate''', you will not behold the beauty of the ancestral temple or the splendor of all the officers inside.  I suspect that few people are able to enter through the gate.  Are not then Shusun Wushu's words reasonable?''

===Idiom===
# to not have an "in"; unable to crack into (a market); to try to find an in without any success
#: ''[[在]][[经历]][[了]][[多年]][[的]]'''不得其门而入'''[[后]]，[[中国]][[终于]][[在]]2005[[年]]10[[月]]24[[日]][[正式]][[成为]]“X86[[体系]][[俱乐部]]”[[的]][[正式]][[成员]]。''
#: ''On 24 October 2005, after having spent many years of '''trying to find an "in" without any success''', China finally became a formal member of the "[[w:X86 architecture|X86 architecture]] club." 
# to go about something in the wrong way; To make an end-run around the rules; to try to backdoor an issue; to go through the backdoor to accomplish something
#: ''[[因此]]，[[若]][[你]][[所]][[安装]][[或]][[开放]][[的]][[功能]]、[[网络]][[服务]][[与]][[通讯]][[连接埠]][[越]][[少]]，[[骇客]][[就]][[越]]'''不得其门而入'''。''
#: ''Because of this, the fewer capabilities/network services and communications connection ports that you install or open, the less likely it will be that a hacker will '''find a backdoor''' into your system.''

===References===
*[http://140.111.34.46/cgi-bin/dict/GetContent.cgi?Database=dict&DocNum=8704&GraphicWord=yes&QueryString=不得其門而入 國語辭典 (Guoyu Cidian)]
*[http://zh.wikisource.org/wiki/%E8%AB%96%E8%AA%9E 論語 (Analects of Confucius)]
*[http://72.14.207.104/search?q=cache:GUuBCl9nlVQJ:www.cncotton.com.cn/cottonschool/class_detail.asp%3Fid%3D352++%22%E4%B8%8D%E5%BE%97%E5%85%B6%E9%96%80%E8%80%8C%E5%85%A5%22+site:.cn&hl=zh-TW&gl=tw&ct=clnk&cd=54 Article about the Chinese Information Super Highway]
*[http://72.14.207.104/search?q=cache:jzDAHYNghwwJ:www.designnews.com.cn/Article/html/2005-11%255C20051122134853.htm++%22%E4%B8%8D%E5%BE%97%E5%85%B6%E9%96%80%E8%80%8C%E5%85%A5%22+site:.cn&hl=zh-TW&gl=tw&ct=clnk&cd=33 A debate about computer chips]
===[[Attestation]]===
*''Less than 2,000 hits may be an indicator that this term is not commonly used.''
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%B8%8D%E5%BE%97%E5%85%B6%E9%96%80%E8%80%8C%E5%85%A5&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .cn]
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%B8%8D%E5%BE%97%E5%85%B6%E9%96%80%E8%80%8C%E5%85%A5&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]
[[Category:zh-cn:Idioms|bu4de2qi2men2er2ru4]]