{{zh-forms|[[不得其门而入]]|[[不]][[得]][[其]][[門]][[而]][[入]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
*''c.'' '''479 BCE - 221 BCE:''' ''anon'', ''[[:zh:s:論語|論語]]'' ([[w:Analects of Confucius|Analects of Confucius]])
:''[[叔孫武叔]][[語]][[大夫]][[於]][[朝]]，[[曰]]：“[[子貢]][[賢]][[於]][[仲尼]]。”[[子服景伯]][[以]][[告]][[子貢]]。[[子貢]][[曰]]：“[[譬]][[之]][[宮]][[牆]]，[[賜]][[之]][[牆]][[也]][[及]][[肩]]，[[窺見]][[室]][[家]][[之]][[好]]。[[夫子]][[之]][[牆]][[數]][[仞]]，'''不得其門而入'''，[[不]][[見]][[宗廟]][[之]][[美]]，[[百]][[官]][[之]][[富]]。[[得]][[其]][[門]][[者]][[或]][[寡]][[矣]]。[[夫子]][[之]][[云]]，[[不]][[亦]][[宜]][[乎]]！”''
::''(The high official) Shusun Wushu remarked to the other officials at court, "Zi Gong surpasses his master (Confucius) in ability."  Zifu Jingbo reported this to Zi Gong.  Zi Gong said, "I will use the analogy of a wall; the wall that I have built comes up to my shoulders.  One can get a glimpse of the beauty inside my house.  My master's wall is very high; if you are '''unable to enter through the gate''', you will not behold the beauty of the ancestral temple or the splendor of all the officers inside.  I suspect that few people are able to enter through the gate.  Are not then Shusun Wushu's words reasonable?'' (Wiktionary translation)

===Idiom===
{{PAGENAME}} (''[[Pinyin]]'' bù dé qí mén ér rù)
# to not have an "in"; unable to crack into (a market); to try to find an in without any success
#*'''2005:''' Design News China editorial staff, ''[http://www.designnews.com.cn/Article/html/2005-11%5C20051122134853.htm 争议英特尔称AMD旧技术援华]'' (Dispute ... [[Intel]] claims that old [[AMD]] technology is helping China)
#*:''[[在]][[經歷]][[了]][[多年]][[的]]'''不得其門而入'''[[後]]，[[中國]][[終於]][[在]]2005[[年]]10[[月]]24[[日]][[正式]][[成為]]“X86[[體系]][[俱樂部]]”[[的]][[正式]][[成員]]。
#*:: ''On 24 October 2005, after having spent many years of '''trying to find an "in" without any success''', China finally became a formal member of the "[[w:X86 architecture|X86 architecture]] club."''
# to go about something in the wrong way; to make an end-run around the rules; to try to backdoor an issue; to go through the backdoor to accomplish something
#*'''year?:''' China National Cotton editorial staff ''[http://www.cncotton.com.cn/cottonschool/class_detail.asp?id=352 中国企业信息化道路]'' (Information Super Highway for Chinese Industries)
#:''[[因此]]，[[若]][[你]][[所]][[安裝]][[或]][[開放]][[的]][[功能]]、[[網路]][[服務]][[與]][[通訊]][[連接埠]][[越]][[少]]，[[駭客]][[就]][[越]]'''不得其門而入'''。''
#::''Because of this, the fewer capabilities/network services and communications connection ports that you install or open, the less likely it will be that a hacker will '''find a backdoor''' into your system.''

===External links===
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%B8%8D%E5%BE%97%E5%85%B6%E9%96%80%E8%80%8C%E5%85%A5&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%B8%8D%E5%BE%97%E5%85%B6%E9%96%80%E8%80%8C%E5%85%A5&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]
*[http://140.111.34.46/cgi-bin/dict/GetContent.cgi?Database=dict&DocNum=8704&GraphicWord=yes&QueryString=不得其門而入 國語辭典 (Guoyu Cidian)]

[[Category:zh-tw:Idioms|一03{{PAGENAME}}]]