{{zh-forms|[[鹬]][[蚌]][[相]][[争]]，[[渔人]][[得]][[利]]|[[鷸蚌相爭，漁人得利]]}}
==Chinese==
===Mandarin===
[[Pinyin]]: yù bàng xiāng zhēng yúrén dé lì
===Etymology===
Literally: When the [[w:snipe|snipe]] and the [[w:oyster|oyster]] fight, it is the fisherman that reaps the reward.
*From a story in Chapter Two, "Strategies of [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]]," ''[[w:Zhan Guo Ce|Strategies of the Warring States]]''
#: [[趙]][[且]][[伐]][[燕]]，[[蘇代]][[為]][[燕]][[王]][[謂]][[惠]][[王]][[曰]]︰“[[今]][[者]][[臣]][[來]]，[[過]][[易水]]，[[蚌]][[方]][[出]][[曝]]，[[而]][[鷸]][[啄]][[其]][[肉]]，[[蚌]][[合]][[而]][[鉗]][[其]][[喙]]。[[鷸]][[曰]]︰‘[[今日]][[不]][[雨]]，[[明日]][[不]][[雨]]，[[即]][[有]][[死]][[蚌]]。’[[蚌]][[亦]][[謂]][[鷸]][[曰]]︰‘[[今日]][[不]][[出]]，[[明日]][[不]][[出]]，[[即]][[有]][[死]][[鷸]]。’[[兩]][[者]][[不]][[肯]][[舍]]，[[漁]][[者]][[得]][[而]][[並]][[禽]][[之]]。[[今]][[趙]][[且]][[伐]][[燕]]，[[燕]]、[[趙]][[久]][[相]][[支]]，[[以]][[弊]][[大眾]]，[[臣]][[恐]][[強]][[秦]][[之]][[為]][[漁]][[父]][[也]]。[[故]][[愿]][[王]][[之]][[熟]][[計]][[之]][[也]]。”惠王曰︰“善。”乃止。
#: ''When [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] was about to attack [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]], Su Dai spoke to King Hui of [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] on behalf of the king of [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]].  He said, "On my way here today, as I crossed the Yi River, I spotted an [[w:oyster|oyster]] that had opened its shell to sun itself.  Just then, a [[w:snipe|snipe]] began to peck at the flesh inside its shell.  The [[w:oyster|oyster]] closed its shell on the beak of the [[w:snipe|snipe]] so that it could not get away.  The [[w:snipe|snipe]] said, "It is not raining today, nor will it rain tomorrow.  You shall die Mr. [[w:oyster|Oyster]]."  To which the [[w:oyster|oyster]] replied, "You shall not escape my grip today, nor shall you escape it tomorrow.  It is you who will die (of hunger) Mr. [[w:snipe|Snipe]]."  Neither side would yield, at which point, a fisherman came by and snatched them both into his net.  Today, [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] is on the verge of attacking [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]].  [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]] and [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] have been at odds for a long time, and have caused their people to suffer.  I am afraid that the fisherman in this case will be the mighty [[w:Qin (state)|Qin]].  For this reason, I hope that your highness will give the matter your mature consideration.  King Hui said, "ok fine" and called off the attack.''

===Proverb===
#When two sides contend, it's always the third party that benefits.

===Synonyms===
*[[鷸蚌相爭，漁翁得利]]

===Related terms===
*[[漁人之利]]
*[[兩敗俱傷]]

[[Category:zh-tw:Proverbs|鳥0c]]