==English==

===Etymology===
{{L.}} [[cadere]], to fall.

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}} 
'''cadence'''

# {{music}}: a [[chord progression]] that comes at the closing of a musical phrase.  
# {{running}}: the number of steps per minute. The average cadence for many successful distance runners has been found to be in the 180-200 region.
# (''cycling''): the number of revolutions of the [[crank]]s per minute. Cyclists typically have a preferred cadence at which they feel most comfortable, and on bicycles with many gears it is possible to stick to a favourite cadence at a wide range of speeds. Recreational and utility cyclists typically cycle around 60&ndash;80&nbsp;rpm; racing cyclists around 80&ndash;120&nbsp;rpm and sprinters up to 170&nbsp;rpm for short bursts. Cycling great [[w:Lance Armstrong]] is known for his high cadence of 120&nbsp;rpm. Some cyclists believe that some cadences are more efficient than others, but the wide range of preferred cadences among racing cyclists suggest that the difference, if any, is small.
#{{dance}} a dance move which ends a phrase. For example, the '''cadence''' in a [[galliard]] step refers to the final leap in a cinquepace sequence.
# {{military}} A chant that is sung by military personnel while running or marching, also known as a '''[[jody call]]'''.
#In the modern [[marching band]], a '''drum cadence''' (also called a ''walkbeat'' or ''street beat'') is a work played exclusively by the [[Percussion_instrument|percussion]] section as an purposefully emphasized means of providing a beat to marchers.  These descend from early military marches, and are most often used during parades.  They may also be played separately as pep songs, used while the band is marching onto the performance area, or even as dance breaks during [[field show]]s.
#In [[telephony]], '''ring cadence''' refers to the ringing pattern heard by the person who dials a number, before the called party picks up the call.
#{{fencing}} The rhythm and sequence of a series of actions.

[[Category: English nouns]]
[[Category:Cycling]]

[[fr:cadence]]