{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|United|free|return|353|call|speak|land|why}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A telephone [[conversation]].
#: ''I received several phone '''calls''' today.''
#: ''I received several '''calls''' today.''
# A social [[visit]].
#: ''I paid a '''call''' to a dear friend of mine.''
# A cry or [[shout]].
#: ''He heard a '''call''' from the other side of the room.''
# The characteristic [[cry]] of a bird.
#: ''That sound is the distinctive '''call''' of the cuckoo bird.''
# A [[beckon]]ing or [[summon]]ing.
#: ''I had to yield to the '''call''' of the wild.''
# {{finance}}: A [[contract]] to buy [[stock]] (See [[w:stock_option]] for further reading); compare [[put]].
# {{Cricket}} The act of calling to the other batsman.
# {{Cricket}} The [[state]] of being the batsman whose [[role]] it is to call (depends on where the ball goes.)
# {{Medicine}} An overnight duty in the hospital.  <!--Any service profession, right?  Should be at [[on-call]]?-->

====Translations====
'''A telephone conversation'''
{{top}}
*[[w:Esperanto|Esperanto]]: [[voko]]
*Finnish: [[soitto]] (puhelinsoitto) (1)
*[[w:French language|French]]: appel (3,5)
*German: [[Ruf]] {{m}}
*Italian. [[telefonoata]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[telefonema]] (1), [[visita]] (2), [[grito]] (3), [[canto]] (4), [[chamada]] (5), [[plantão]][[ médico]] (9)
*Slovene: [[klic]] (1,3,4,5)
*Turkish: [[çağrı]]
{{bottom}}

'''A social visit'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''A cry or shout'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''The characteristic cry of a bird'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''A beckoning or summoning'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''(finance): A contract to buy stock'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|call||}}

# To request, [[summon]], or [[beckon]].
#: ''That person is hurt, '''call''' for help!''
# To [[cry]] or shout.
#: ''I can't see you.  '''Call''' out to me so I can find you.''
# To contact by [[telephone]].
#: ''Why don't you '''call''' me in the morning.''
# To pay a social visit.
#: ''We could always '''call''' on a friend.''
# To [[name]] or refer to.
#: ''Why don't we dispense with the formalities.  Please '''call''' me Al.''
# (''reflexively'': '''to be called''') Of a person, to have as one's name; of a thing, to have as its name.
#: ''I'm '''called''' John.''
#: ''A very tall building is '''called''' a skyscraper.''
# {{Cricket}} (of a [[batsman]]): To [[shout]] [[directions]] to the other batsman on [[whether]] or not they shoud take a run.
# {{Cricket}} (of a [[fielder]]): To shout to other fielders that he [[intend]]s to take a [[catch]] (thus [[avoid]]ing [[collision]]s.)
# {{poker}}: A bet means to match or equal the amount of [[poker chips]] in the pot as the player that [[bet]].

====Related terms====
*[[call for]]
*[[call in]]
*[[call off]]
*[[call on]]

====Translations====
'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[سَمَّى]]
*Croatian: [[zvati]]
*Dutch: [[roepen]] (1), [[schreeuwen]] (2), [[opbellen]] (3), [[bezoeken]] (4), [[noemen]] (5)
*Esperanto: [[voki]]
*Finnish: [[kutsua]] (1, 6), [[soittaa]] (puhelimella) (3)
*Flemish: [[roepen]]
*German: [[rufen]], [[anrufen]], [[telefonieren]]
*[[Hindi]]: [[बुला]] (bulānā) (1)
*[[Ido]]: [[vokar]]
*Japanese: [[訪問]] (ほうもん / houmon)(4)
*Latin: [[vocō]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[chamar]] (1, 5), [[gritar]] (2), [[telefonar]] (3), [[visitar]] (4)
*Romanian: [[chema]] (1), [[striga]] (2), [[telefona]], [[suna]] (3), [[vizita]] (5), [[numi]] (6)
*Russian: [[звать]] (5)
*Sanskrit: आव्हे (āvhe)
*[[w:Slovak language|Slovak]]: [[volať]] (1)
*Slovene: [[poklicati]] (1,2,3)
*[[w:Spanish language|Spanish]]: [[llamar]]
*Swahili: [[kuita]] (1,2), [[kupiga simu]] (3), [[kuitwa]] (6)
*Telugu: [[పిలుపు]] (pilupu)
*Turkish: [[aramak]]
{{bottom}}

{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[call back]]
*[[call girl]]
*[[call in]]
*[[calling]]
*[[call of nature]]
*[[call round]]
*[[call of the wild]]
*[[call up]]
*[[cat call]]
*[[courtesy call]]
*[[phone call]]
*[[telephone call]]
*[[wake-up call]]

[[Category:Old Norse derivations]]

[[ang:call]]
[[et:call]]
[[fr:call]]
[[gl:call]]
[[io:call]]
[[it:call]]
[[hu:call]]
[[ja:call]]
[[pt:call]]
[[ru:call]]
[[fi:call]]
[[zh:call]]