{{wikipedia}}
{{see|câmp}}
==English==

{{rank|share|working|breath|989|camp|prove|engaged|America}}

===Etymology===
Via Old French, ultimately from Latin ''[[campus]]''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[outdoor]] place acting as temporary [[accommodation]] in tents or other temporary structures.
# An organised event, often taking place in tents or temporary accomodation.
# A base of a military group, not necessarily temporary.
# A group of people with the same [[ideals]] or political leanings, strongly supported.
# An [[affect|affected]], [[exaggerate|exaggerated]] or intentionally tasteless style.

====Translations====
;outdoor place
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[leiri]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;organized event
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[leiri]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;base
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[leiri]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;group
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[leiri]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;style
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[#Finnish|camp]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[tábor]] {{m}} (1,2,3,4)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[tábor#Slovak|tábor]] {{m}} (1,2,3,4)

===Adjective===
'''camp''' ({{compar}} '''[[camper]]''', {{superl}} '''[[campest]]''')

# [[theatrical|Theatrical]]; making exaggerated gestures.
# (''of a gay man'') [[Ostentatiously]] [[effeminate]].
# Intentionally [[tasteless]] or [[vulgar]], self-parodying.
# {{notcomp}} Of or related to a camp.
#:''The '''camp''' kitchen provides three hot meals a day.''

====Translations====
;theatrical
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;gay man
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;tasteless
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;related to a camp
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[leiri-]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[teatrální]], [[afektovaný]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To live in a [[tent]] or similar temporary accomodation.
#:''We '''camped''' in the field until Sunday.''
# To stay in an advantageous location in a [[first-person]] [[shooter game]], for example, next to a power-up or to guard an area.
#:''The easiest way to win on this map is to '''camp''' the double damage.''
#:''They '''camped''' the flag as usual, so we couldn't even get near it.''
# To behave in a camp manner.
#:''When I played Malvolio in ''Twelfth Night'', I really '''camped''' it up.''
# (''gay slang'') To [[troll]] for sexual partners.
#: ''I am going '''camping''' tonight and hope to get laid.''
# (''gay slang'') To [[chat up]] a guy in the hopes of getting him into bed.
#: ''"Was that cute guy '''camping''' you?"''

====Translations====
;to live in a tent
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to stay in advantageous location
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to behave in a camp manner
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to troll
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to chat up
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
*{{ttbc|Czech}} : [[tábořit]], [[stanovat]]

===Related terms===
*[[camper]]
*[[campness]]
*[[campfire]]
*[[camp site]], [[campsite]]
*[[campground]]
*[[campestral]]

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[campus]]''

===Noun===
'''camp''' {{m}} or {{n}}

# [[combat]]

===Noun===
'''camp''' {{n}}

# an enclosed piece of [[land]]

[[Category:Old English nouns]]

[[ca:camp]]
[[et:camp]]
[[fr:camp]]
[[gl:camp]]
[[ko:camp]]
[[io:camp]]
[[it:camp]]
[[hu:camp]]
[[fi:camp]]
[[vi:camp]]
[[zh:camp]]