{{see|Candy}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*kăn'di, /ˈkændi/, /<tt>"k{ndi</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ændi|Rhymes: -ændi]]

===Etymology===
Arabic ''[[qandi]]'' (''candied'', from ''[[qand]]'', being ''cane sugar''); Dravidian ''[[kan. ṭu]]'' from the Tamil. (Eng. usg. ca. 15c); From Dutch ''kandij'' (crystalized sugar)

===Noun===
{{en-noun|candies|-}}

# (''US''; ''uncountable'') An edible, sweet-tasting confection containing [[sugar]], or sometimes [[artificial sweetener]]s, and often flavored with fruit, chocolate, nuts or artificial flavors.
# (''US''; ''countable'') A piece of candy.

====Quotations====
'''confection'''
*'''1991''', They came down to buy sugar, flour, saltfish or '''candy''' from Nana, to collect letters and exchange gossip. &mdash; ''The prince'', Brayfield, Celia, London: Chatto & Windus Ltd.

'''piece of candy'''
*'''1991''', Unwholesome pink and yellow '''candies''' were sold from trays. &mdash; ''A season for murder'', Granger, Ann, London: Headline Book Publishing plc.

====Synonyms====
*''confection:'' [[confectionery]], [[sweet]]s (''British''), [[lolly|lollies]] (''Australian'')
*''piece of candy:'' [[sweet]] (''British''), [[lolly]] (''Australian'')

====Derived terms====
*[[candy floss]]
*[[cotton candy]]

====Translations====
'''confection'''
''See'' [[confectionery]]

'''piece of candy'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[snoep]]
*Finnish: [[karkki]]
*French: [[bonbon]] ''m''
* [[Ido]]: [[bonbono]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[caramella]] ''f''
*[[Maricopa]]: [[ʼayuu mnyee]]
*[[O'odham]]: [[lulsi]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Sanskrit derivations]]
[[Category:Dutch derivations]]
[[category:Foods]]

[[fr:candy]]
[[gl:candy]]
[[ko:candy]]
[[io:candy]]
[[it:candy]]
[[fi:candy]]
[[zh:candy]]