===[[English]]===

[[IPA]]: [ke:n] [kein]

#the [[slender]], [[flexible]] [[stem]] of [[plant|plants]] such as [[bamboo]], [[reed]], or the [[like]].
#the [[plant]] itself.
#[[sugar cane]].
#From the above, a [[short]] [[wooden]] or [[bamboo]] [[rod]] or [[stick]] used for [[corporal punishment]] ([[general|generally]] [[refer|referred]] to as 'the cane'.) ~ ''the teacher gave his student the cane for throwing paper''.
#a [[strong]] [[short]] [[staff]] [[use|used]] for [[support]] during [[walk|walking]] by the [[disabled]] or [[elderly]]. ~ ''after [[break|breaking]] his [[leg]] he [[walk|walked]] with a cane''.
#a [[long]] [[collapsible]] ([[general|generally]] [[white]] for [[improve|improved]] [[visibility]]) [[wooden]], [[metal]] or [[plastic]] [[rod]] [[use|used]] by [[blind]] [[people]] to [[feel]] for [[obstacle|obstacles]] in their [[path]].

===[[Etymology]]===

[[Latin]] ''[[canna]]'' < [[Greek]] ''[[kanna]]'' < [[Hebrew]] ''[[qaneh]]'', all [[mean|meaning]] [[rood]].

===[[Other]] [[language|languages]]===

*[[Arabic]]: ''[[بوص]]'' ''[[masculine|m.]]''
*[[Chinese]]: ''[[芦苇]]'' 
*[[Dutch]]: ''[[riet]]'' ''n'' (2), ''[[suikerriet]]'' ''n'' (3), ''[[wandelstok]]'' ''m'' (5), ''[[stok]]'' ''m'' (5), ''[[blindenstok]]'' ''m'' (6)
*[[Esperanto]]: ''[[kano]]'' (1, 2, 4, 5), ''[[sukerkano]]'' (3), ''[[promenkano]]'', ''[[promenbastono]]'' (5, 6), ''[[blindulbastono]]'' (6).
*[[Hebrew]]: ''[[qaneh]]'' ''m'' (1, 2, 4, 6), ''[[maqel ha-likhah]]'' ''m'' (5), ''[[q'neh sukar]]'' ''m''(3).
*[[German]]: ''[[Rohr]]'' ''n'' (1, 2), ''[[Zuckerrohr]]'' ''n'' (3), ''[[Spazierstock]]'' ''m'' (5, 6).
*[[Italian]]: ''[[canna]]'' ''f'' (1, 2, 4), ''[[canna da zucchero]]'' ''f'' (3), ''[[bastone da passeggio]]'' ''m'' (5), ''[[bastone per ciechi]]'' ''m'' (6).



----

===[[Italian]]===


[[IPA]]: ['ka:ne]

#''[[(animal)]]''. [[dog]]. 
#''[[disparaging|(disp.)]]'' [[rot|rotten]] [[actor]].
#''[[(gun)]]''. [[cock]], [[hammer]].
#''[[mechanics|(mech.)]]'' [[catch]].

===[[translation|Translations]]===

*''[[sembrare]] un cane [[bastonare|bastonato]]'', [[to have]] a [[hangdog]] [[look]].
*''cane [[sciogliere|sciolto]]'', [[maverick]].
*''[[tempo]] da cani'', [[foul]] [[weather]].
*''[[menare]] il can per l'[[aia]]'', to [[beat]] about the [[bush]].
*''non c'è un cane'', there isn't a [[soul]].

[[Dutch]]: [[hondenweer]] ''n''

===[[Etymology]]===

[[Latin]] ''[[canis]]'' < [[Indoeuropean|IE]] *''kwon-'' (same [[origin]] as [[English]] ''[[hound]]'').

===Other [[language|languages]]===

*[[Arabic]]: ''[[كلب]]'' ''[[masculine|m.]]''
*[[Chinese]]: ''[[狗]]'' (1)
*[[Dutch]] ''[[hond]]'' ''m''
*[[Esperanto]] ''[[hundo]]'' (1, 2), ''[[ĉano]]'' (3).
*[[French]] ''[[chien]]'' ''m'' (1, 3).
*[[German]] ''[[Hund]]'' ''m'' (1), ''[[gottserbärmlich]] [[spielen|spielender]] [[Darsteller]]'' ''m'' (2), ''[[Schlagbolzen]]'' ''m'' (3). 
*[[Hebrew]]: ''[[kelev]]'' ''m'' (1), ''[[berez]]'' ''m'' (3).
*[[Interlingua]]: ''[[can]]'' (1, 3).
*[[Portuguese]]: ''[[cão]]'' ''m'' (1, 3), ''[[cachorro]]'' ''m'' (1).
*[[Spanish]]: ''[[perro]]'' ''m'' (1).