==English==

=== Etymology ===
* From the Latin ''capitalis'' via the English root ''capital''

=== Noun ===

'''Capitalism'''
#A social and economic system based on abstraction of ownership of the means of production into capital. Capitalism has various forms which can be defined by two variables, ownership and control. The ownership can be either private or state-owned, while control can be laissez-faire or state-regulated though control generally follows ownership. Most modern states fall well between the two extremes on both variables. For example 18th century Britain used private ownership & laissez-faire, 20th century USSR had extreme state ownership & state-control, while Modern Europe has generally private ownership & high degree of state-regulation.


# A social and economic system based on private property rights, including the private ownership of resources or [[capital]], with economic decisions made through the largely through the operation of a [[free market]] rather than by state control.  The practical implementation of capitalism within political systems varies between complete (laissez-faire) [[free markets]] and mixed-economy [[state-capitalism]] or [[welfare state]]s.

==== External links ====
* [[W:capitalism|Wikipedia article on capitalism]]

===Translations===
*[[Breton]]: [[kapitalouriezh]] ''f''
*[[Chinese]]: simp. [[资本主义]]/trad. [[資本主義]] (zīběnzhǔyì)
*[[Czech]]: [[kapitalismus]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[kapitalisme]] ''n''
*[[Finnish]]: [[kapitalismi]]
*[[French]]: [[capitalisme]] ''m''
*[[German]]: [[Kapitalismus]] ''m''
*[[Japanese]]: [[資本主義]]
*[[Polish]]: [[kapitalizm]] ''m''
*[[Portuguese]]: [[capitalismo]] ''m''
*[[Russian]]: [[капитализм]]
*[[Swedish]]: [[kapitalism]]
*Slovene: [[kapitalizem]]
*Turkish: [[kapitalizm]]

[[fr:capitalism]]
[[it:capitalism]]