==English==

{{rank|following|fell|different|388|care|war|short|able}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-care.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛə(r)|-ɛə(r)]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[cearu]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg-both}}

# A concern or responsibility.
#:*'''Care''' should be taken when holding babies.
#:*I don't have a '''care''' in the world.
# The career/subject of looking after people.
# Not looked after by parents or foster parents (''in care'').

====Derived terms====
*[[Care Sunday]]

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[huoli]] (1), [[hoito]] (2)
*Old English: [[cearu]] ''f'' (1)
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[skrb]] ''f'' (1)
{{bottom}}

===Quotations===
*'''1925''': Walter Anthony and Tom Reed (titles), Rupert Julian (director), ''The Phantom of the Opera'', silent movie
*:‘<!--sic-->Have a '''care''', Buquet—ghosts like not to be seen or talked about!’

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[carian]].

====Intransitive verb====
{{en-verb|car|ing}}

# To be concerned about, have an interest in.
#:''I don't care what you think.''
# To look after.
#:''Young children can learn to care for a pet.''
# To be mindful of.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Chinese<sup>1</sup>: [[擔心]]/[[担心]], [[關心]]/[[关心]]
*Finnish: [[välittää]] (1), [[huolehtia]] (1, 2), [[hoitaa]] (2)
*Indonesian: [[rawat|merawat]], [[asuh|mengasuh]], [[bina|membina]], [[peduli]], [[perduli]], [[acuh]]
*Japanese: [[世話]]をする ([[せわ]]をする, sewa wo suru), [[面倒見る]] ([[めんどうみる]], mendō-miru)
{{mid}}
*Old English: [[carian]] (1)
*Romanian: [[păsa]]
*Slovene: [[skrbeti]] (2)
*Vietnamese: [[để ý]] (đến) (1, 3), [[nuôi]] (2), [[thương]] (in a loving sense)
{{bottom}}

<sup>1</sup>In recent years, it has become increasingly popular to use the English directly in a Chinese sentence.  For example:
#: ''[[我们]][[是否]][[真]][[的]][[可以]][[放下]][[曾经]][[很]]'''care'''[[的]][[东西]] ([[Simplified Chinese]]) 
#: ''[[我們]][[是否]][[真]][[的]][[可以]][[放下]][[曾經]][[很]]'''care'''[[的]][[東西]] ([[Traditional Chinese]])
#: ''Can we truly just give up something that we used to '''care''' about?

----

==Italian==
===Adjective===
'''care''' ''f plural''

#(''feminine plural form of [[caro]]'') [[dear]] (''beloved; expensive; in salutation of a letter'')

----

==Romanian==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[qualis]]''
===Pronoun===
'''care'''

# [[which]]

[[Category:Romanian pronouns]]
[[Category:English abstract nouns]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fa:care]]
[[fr:care]]
[[hy:care]]
[[io:care]]
[[it:care]]
[[hu:care]]
[[ja:care]]
[[pt:care]]
[[ru:care]]
[[fi:care]]
[[vi:care]]
[[uk:care]]
[[zh:care]]