==English==

===Pronunciation===

*{{AHD|kärʹtrĭj}}

=== Noun ===

# In general, a prefabricated subassembly, interchangeable with its sibling subassemblies, which can be easily installed in or removed from a larger mechanism, and whose prefabrication obviates the need to handle its constituent parts individually. Specific examples of the general principle follow.
## The case which holds the explosive charge (for example, gunpowder) and primer for a round of ammunition.
## The aforementioned case and its bullet, together as one unit.
## A vessel which contains the ink or toner for a computer printer and can be easily replaced with another.
## A magnetic tape data storage device, for example an audio cassette, consisting of reels for the tape and a housing to hold them in correct position.
# (obsolete) a small paper package, e.g. in an old book about making printer's type: ''After all the type has been cast: "The Boy will paper up each sort in a cartridge by itself"''.

===Historical note===

''Cartridge'' comes from a Romance root meaning "a roll of paper", and its generalized sense in the age of interchangeable manufacture ("a prefabricated subassembly […] which can be easily installed in or removed from a larger mechanism") is a natural development from its sense as a "case which holds the explosive charge (for example, gunpowder) and primer for a round of ammunition." Before ammunition cartridges were metal cases with their bullets press-fitted into their ends, they were small rolls of paper containing a measured amount of gunpowder (often measured by counting the number of grains) and were placed in the chamber behind the (separate) ball or bullet. The general aim of this technological advancement was to expedite the loading of firearms, which before cartridges was often a very long process of fumbling with powder, wadding, and ball in the heat of battle.

==== Translations to be checked ====
* {{ttbc|Thai}}: ลูกกระสุน กระสุนปืน ตลับ

[[ar:cartridge]]
[[gl:cartridge]]
[[io:cartridge]]
[[it:cartridge]]
[[fi:cartridge]]
[[vi:cartridge]]
[[zh:cartridge]]