==English==

{{rank|hear|least|person|312|case|fact|known|thee}}

===Etymology 1===
From Middle English '''[[cas]]''' < Old English '''[[cas]](us)''' (noun case) < Old French '''[[cas]]''' (an event) < Latin '''[[casus]]''' (a falling, a fall; accident, event, occurrence; occasion, opportunity; noun case), perfect passive participle of '''[[cadere]]''' (to fall, sink, drop) < Proto-Indo-European base *'''kad-''' (to fall).

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# {{law}} A legal proceeding, [[lawsuit]].
#One of several similar instances or events which are being studied and compared.
#{{grammar}}: An instance of grammatical case; a category of nouns, pronouns, or adjectives, specialized (usually by [[inflection]]) to indicate a particular syntactic relation to other words in a sentence.
#:''The ''[[accusative case]]'' canonically indicates a [[direct object]].''
#:''Latin has six cases, and remnants of a seventh.''
#{{grammar}} {{uncountable}} A set of grammatical cases or their meanings in a particular language collectively.
#:''Jane has been studying case in Caucasian languages.''
#:''Latin is a language that employs case.''

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[دعوى|دَعْوَى]]}} {{Unicode|(dáʕwa)}} {{m}} (1), {{ARchar|[[دعاوى|دَعَاوَى]]}} {{Unicode|(daʕáːwa)}} {{p}}; {{ARchar|[[حالة|حَالَةٌ]]}} {{Unicode|(ħáːla)}} {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[حالات|حَالاَتٌ]]}} {{Unicode|(ħaláːt)}} {{p}} (2,3)
*[[Belarusian]]: [[склон]] (sklon) {{m}} (3)
*Bulgarian: [[падеж]] (padéž) {{m}} (3)
*Czech: [[případ]] {{m}} (1,2), [[pád]] {{m}} (3)
*Danish: [[fald]] (3)
*Dutch: [[naamval]] {{m}} (3), [[casus]] {{m}} (3)
*Finnish: [[oikeusjuttu]] (1); [[tapaus]] (2); [[sijamuoto]] (3)
*French: [[cause]] {{f}} (1); [[cas]] {{m}} (2,3)
*German: [[Fall]] {{m}} (1,2); [[Kasus]] {{m}} (3)
*Greek: [[δίκη]] (díki) {{f}} (1); [[περίπτωσις]] (períptosis) {{f}} (2); [[πτώσις]] (ptósis) {{f}} (3)
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[יחסה]] (yakhasah) {{f}} (3)
*Hungarian: [[eset]] (3)
*Japanese: [[事件]] ([[じけん]], jíken) (2); [[格]] ([[かく]], kakú) (3)
*Korean: [[경우]] (gyeong-u) (2); [[격]] (gyeok) (3)
*Latin: [[causa]] {{f}} (1); [[casus]] {{m}} (2,3)
*Portuguese: [[causa]] {{f}} (1); [[caso]] {{m}} (2,3)
*Russian: [[судебное дело]] (sudébnoje délo) {{n}} (1); [[случай]] (slúčaj) {{m}} (2); [[падеж]] (padéž) {{m}} (3)
*Slovak: [[pád]] {{m}} (3)
*Slovene: [[primer]] {{m}} (1,2), [[sklon]] {{m}} (3)
*Spanish: [[causa]] {{f}} (1); [[caso]] {{m}} (2,3)
{{bottom}}

====See also====
*[[Wiktionary Appendix:Grammatical cases]]

===Etymology 2===
From Middle English '''[[cas]]''' < Old North French '''[[casse]]''', Old French '''[[chasse]]''' (box, chest, case) < Latin '''[[capsa]]''' (box, bookcase), from '''[[capere]]''' (to take, seize, hold).

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

#A box that contains or can contain a number of identical items of manufacture.
#A piece of luggage that can be used to transport an apparatus such as a [[sewing machine]].
#A [[suitcase]].
#A piece of furniture, constructed partially of transparent glass or plastic, within which items can be displayed.
#The outer covering or framework of a piece of apparatus such as a [[computer]].
#In typography, the nature of a piece of alphabetic type, whether a "capital" ([[upper case]]) or "small" ([[lower case]]) letter.

=====Related terms=====
*[[case harden]]
*[[hard case]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[علبة|عُلْبَةٌ]]}} {{Unicode|(ʕúlba)}} {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[علب|عُلَب]]}} {{Unicode|(ʕúlab)}} {{p}} (1)
*Bulgarian: [[сандък]] (sandək) {{m}} (1)
*Croatian: [[sanduk]] {{m}} (1)
*Czech: [[bedna]] {{f}} (1), [[pouzdro]] {{n}} (2)
*Danish: [[kasse]] (1)
*Dutch: [[kist]] {{f}} (1)
*Finnish: [[pakkaus]] (1); [[laukku]] (2,3); [[kotelo]] (5); [[isot kirjaimet]] ([[versaali]]) ''(uppercase)'', [[pienet kirjaimet]] ([[gemena]]) ''(lowercase)'' (6)
*French: [[écrin]] {{m}} (1); [[casse]] {{f}} (6)
*German: [[Kiste]] {{f}} (1); [[Koffer]] {{m}} (2,3); [[Vitrine]] {{f}} (4); [[Gehäuse]] {{n}} (5); [[Kasten]], [[Schriftkasten]] {{m}} (6)
*Greek: [[κιβώτιον]] (kivótion) {{n}} (1)
*Hungarian: [[láda]] (1)
*Italian: [[cassetta]] (1)
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[箱]] ([[はこ]], hakó) (1)
*Korean: [[상자]] (sangja) (1)
*Norwegian: [[kiste]] (1)
*Polish: [[skrzynia]] (1)
*Portuguese: [[caixa]] {{f}} (1,5,6)
*Romanian: [[ladă]] (1)
*Russian: [[ящик]] (jáščik) {{m}} (1); [[наборная касса]] (nabórnaja kássa) {{f}} (6)
*Serbian: [[сандук]] (sanduk) {{m}} (1)
*Slovak: [[debna]] {{f}} (1)
*Spanish: [[caja]] {{f}} (1,5,6)
*Swedish: [[lår]] {{c}}
*Turkish: [[sandık]]
*Ukrainian: [[скриня]] (skrynja) {{f}} (1)
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|cas|e}}

# {{transitive}}: To place (an item or items of manufacture) into a box, as in preparation for shipment.
# {{transitive}}, {{colloquial}}: To survey (a building or other location) surreptitiously, as in preparation for a robbery.

=====Translations=====
*Finnish: [[panna koteloon]] (1)
*German: [[einpacken]] (1)

===Anagrams===
*[[aces]]


----

==Italian==
===Noun===
'''case''' {{f}} {{p}}

#(''plural of [[casa#Italian|casa]]'') [[house]]s


----
==Romanian==
===Noun===
'''case''' {{f}} {{p}}
#(''plural of [[casă]]'') [[house]]s

[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[fr:case]]
[[io:case]]
[[it:case]]
[[hu:case]]
[[pt:case]]
[[ru:case]]
[[fi:case]]
[[zh:case]]