{{see|čast}}
==English==

{{rank|tree|cost|value|783|cast|speaking|circumstances|sitting}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|käst}}, {{IPA|/kɑːst/}}, {{SAMPA|/kA:st/}}
*:'''Homophones''': [[caste]]
*: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːst|Rhymes: -ɑːst]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A supportive and immobilising device used to help [[mend]] broken bones.
#: ''The doctor put a '''cast''' on the boy’s broken arm.''
# The collective group of people performing a play or production together.
#: ''He’s in the '''cast''' of Oliver.''
# The [[casting]] procedure
# A small mass of earth excreted by a [[worm]]
# An object made in a [[mould]], or the mould used to make cast objects; as, a plaster cast
# A [[squint]]

====Translations====
;a supportive and immobilising device
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[gips]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[kipsi]]
*German: [[Gips]] {{m}}, [[Gipsverband]] {{m}}
*Indonesian: [[gips]]
*Italian: [[gesso]] {{m}}, [[ingessatura]] {{f}} <ref name=oxf-par>''Oxford-Paravia Concise - Dizionario Inglese-Italiano e Italiano-Inglese''. Edited by Maria Cristina Bareggi. Torino: Paravia, 2003 (in collaboration with Oxford University Press). [[W:Wikipedia:book sources| ISBN 8839551107]]. Online version [http://www.oxfordparavia.it/ here]</ref>
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ギブス]] (gibusu) / [[ギプス]] (gipusu)
*Spanish: [[yeso]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}
*French: [[platre]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;group of people performing a play
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bezetting]] {{f}}, [[rolbezetting]]
*Italian: [[cast#Italian|cast]] {{m}} <ref name=oxf-par />
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[演奏]] ([[えんそう]], ensō)
*Spanish: [[reparto]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;casting procedure
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[valu]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;small mass of earth excreted by a [[worm]]
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afgietsel]], [[vorm]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[molde]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;object made in a mould or the mould used to make cast objects
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[valos]]
*Italian: (''object'') [[calco]] {{m}}, [[forma]] {{f}}, (''mould'') [[stampo]] {{m}}, [[calco]] {{m}} <ref name=oxf-par />
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|casts|casting|cast|}}

# To throw forcefully.
#: He cast a stone at the dog.
# To throw something down or [[toss]] something aside
#:to ''cast'' away fear
#:she ''cast'' the die
# The act of throwing a [[fishing line]] or [[net]] into the [[water]].
#:the fisherman ''cast'' the net into the sea.
# To assign a role in a play or performance.
#:the director ''cast'' the part carefully.
# Informatics: to change a variable from for example integer to real, or integer to text.
# Make by pouring into a [[mold]]
# (of [[fabric]]) to [[twist]] or [[warp]].
#{{nautical}} to bring the [[bow]]s of a [[sailing ship]] on to the required [[tack]] just as the [[anchor]] is [[weighed]] by use of the [[headsail]]
#{{nautical}} to [[heave]] the [[lead]] and [[line]] in order to ascertain the [[depth]] of [[water]]

====Translations====
;to throw something down forcefully
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[neergooien]], [[afweren]], [[werpen]]
*Finnish: [[heittää]], [[viskata]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gettare]], [[lanciare]], (''dice'') [[tirare]], (''light, shadow'') [[gettare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{bottom}}

;the act of throwing a fishing line or net into the water
{{top}}
*Dutch: ([[teerling]]), [[uitgooien]]
*Finnish: [[heittää]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gettare]], [[lanciare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{bottom}}

;to assign a role in a play or performance
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[toewijzen]] (van [[rol]] {{m}})
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[assegnare]] una [[parte]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{bottom}}

;to change a variable
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[omzetten]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;make by pouring into a mold
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[valaa]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: (''plaster'') [[colare]]; [[fondere]], (''metal'') [[gettare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
*[[plaster cast]]
*[[casting call]]
*[[casting couch]]
*[[cast iron]]
*[[cast off]]
*[[cast on]]

====References====
<references/>

[[Category:Old Norse derivations]]

----

==Catalan==

===Adjective===
'''cast'''

# [[chaste]]

[[Category:Catalan adjectives]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[ar:cast]]
[[fr:cast]]
[[gl:cast]]
[[ko:cast]]
[[io:cast]]
[[hu:cast]]
[[uk:cast]]
[[zh:cast]]