<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->{{qif|test={{NAMESPACE}}|then=|else=}}
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="afd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion''' in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]].<br />
Please share your thoughts on the matter at '''[[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/{{{1|Catbird seat}}}|this article's entry]]''' on the [[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion|Articles for deletion]] page.<br />
You are welcome to edit this article, but please do not blank this article or remove this notice while the discussion is in progress. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to deletion|Guide to deletion]].<br/>
<small>If you created the article, please don't take offense. Instead, please join the discussion and consider improving the article so that it meets the [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|Wikipedia inclusion criteria]].</small><br/>
<div class="NavFrame" style="padding:0;border-style:none;"><div class="NavFrame" style="border-style:none;padding:0;"><div class="NavHead" style="background:#EDF1F1;text-align:left;"><span style="font-weight:normal;">[[Template:AfD in 3 steps|How to list a page for deletion]] ([{{fullurl:Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Log/{{CURRENTYEAR}} {{CURRENTMONTHNAMEGEN}} {{CURRENTDAY}}|action=edit}} log])</span></div>
<div class="NavContent" style="display:none;background:#EDF1F1;">
{{AfD doc|{{{1|{{PAGENAME}}}}}}}
</div></div></div></div>
[[Category:Pages for deletion]]
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->

The '''catbird seat''' is a phrase used to describe an enviable position, often one of great advantage.

The [[bowerbird|catbird]] is an [[Australia]]n bird of the family ''Ptilonorhynchidae'', known for the extraordinary lengths that the males will go to in order to build a bower to attract a mate.  Some birds will assemble several hundred colored rocks or shells, arranging them in a remarkable and artistic display, in order to build the "seat" atop which his mate will eventually be enthroned.

"In the catbird seat" was among the numerous, [[folk]]sy expressions with which the legendary baseball broadcaster [[Red Barber]] delighted listeners.  Some say he invented the expression; others say that he dug it up from his Southern origins.  However, it may in fact have originated elsewhere.  In a 1942 humorous short story titled "The Catbird Seat," [[James Thurber]] featured a character, Mrs. Barrows, who liked to use the phrase.  Another character, Joey Hart, explained that Mrs. Barrows must have picked up the expression from Red Barber. To Red, according to Joey, "sitting in the catbird seat" meant "'[[sitting pretty]],' like a batter with three balls and no strikes on him."  According to Barber's daughter, however, it was only after Barber read Thurber's story that he started using the phrase "in the catbird seat" himself.

<div class="messagebox cleanup metadata">This article or section does not cite its '''[[{{SITENAME}}:Citing sources|references or sources]].'''<br> You can [[{{SITENAME}}:WikiProject Fact and Reference Check|help]] Wikipedia by including appropriate citations.</div>[[Category:Articles lacking sources|{{PAGENAME}}]]
<div class="messagebox cleanup metadata"> This article belongs in one or more '''[[Wikipedia:Category|categories]]'''. Please [[Wikipedia:Categorization|categorize]] this article to list it with similar topics.</div>[[Category:Category needed|{{PAGENAME}}]]
{{vocab-stub}}