==English==

===Etymology===
c.1300, from O.Fr. ciment, from L. cæmenta "stone chips used for making mortar," from cædere "to cut down, chop, beat, hew, fell, slay" from PIE base *(s)k(h)a- "to strike" (cf. Skt. skhidati "beats, tears," Lith. kaisti "shave," Ger. heien "beat"). The sense evolution from "small broken stones" to "powdered stones used in construction" took place before the word reached Eng. The verb is from 1340.

===Noun===
'''cement ([[cements]])'''
# A [[powder]]ed substance that develops strong [[adhesive]] properties when mixed with [[water]].
# The [[paste]]-like substance resulting from mixing such a powder with water.
# Any material with strong [[adhesive]] properties.
# (''count noun'') A particular type or [[brand]] of cement.

==== Translations ====
;A powdered substance (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sementti]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;The paste-like substance (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sementti]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Any material with strong adhesive properties (3)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A particular type or brand of cement (4)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*French: [[ciment]] ''m''
*German: [[Zement]] ''m''
*Interlingua: [[cemento]]
*Ido: [[cemento]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[cemento]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[cimento]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[cemento]] ''m''
*Volapük: [[zäm]]
{{bottom}}

==== See also ====
{{Wikipedia}}

===Verb===
{{conj|cement|cements|cemented|cemented|cementing}}
# To [[affix]] with cement.
# (''figurative'') To [[ensure]] an [[outcome]].

==== Translations ====
{{top}}
*French: [[cimenter]] 
*German: [[zementieren]]
*Interlingua: [[cementar]] 
*Italian: [[cementare]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[cimentar]]
*Spanish: [[cementar]]
*Volapük: [[zämön]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English verbs]]
[[Category:Building materials]]

[[fr:cement]]
[[gl:Cement]]
[[io:Cement]]
[[it:cement]]
[[nl:cement]]
[[pl:cement]]
[[sl:Cement]]