{{See|centre}}

==English==
===Variant spelling===
*[[centre]] (''British'').  '''Center''' is the standard US spelling.  (But '''centre''' is occasionally found in the U.S., just as '''center''' is occasionally found in countries where '''centre''' is the accepted spelling.)

===Noun===
'''center''' (''plural'' '''[[centers]]''')

#{{geometry}} The point on a line that is [[midway]] between the [[end]]s.
#{{geometry}} The point in the interior of a [[circle]] that is [[equidistant]] from all points on the [[circumference]] of the circle.
#{{geometry}} The point in the interior of a [[sphere]] that is [[equidistant]] from all points on the [[surface]] of the sphere.
#{{geometry}} The point in the interior of any [[figure]] of any number of [[dimension]]s that has as its [[coordinates]] the [[arithmetic mean]] of the coordinates of all points on the [[perimeter]] of the figure.
# A place where some [[function]] or [[activity]] occurs.
#:''shopping center''
#:''convention center''
# A [[topic]] that is particularly [[important]] in a given context.
#:''the center of the controversy''
#:''the center of attention''
#{{basketball}} The player, generally the tallest, who plays closest to the basket.

====Synonyms====
*(''point on a line midway between the ends''): [[midpoint]]
*(''point in the interior of figure with mean coordinates''): [[centroid]], [[center of gravity]]/[[centre of gravity]], [[center of mass]]/[[centre of mass]]

====Derived terms====
*[[centerpiece]]/[[centerpiece]]
*[[community center]]/[[community center]]
*[[shopping center]]/[[shopping center]]


# {{Icehockey}} The [[forward]] that generally plays between the [[left wing]] and [[right wing]] and usually takes the [[faceoff]]s.
#{{fb}} The person who holds the ball at the beginning of each play.


==== Translations ====

'''point on a line midway between the ends'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: [[milieu]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[centrum]] ''n''
*Swedish: [[mitt]] ''c'', [[mittpunkt]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''point equidistant from all points on the perimeter of a circle'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: centre ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[centro]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[mitt]] ''c'', [[mittpunkt]] ''c'', [[centrum]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''point equidistant from all points on the surface of a sphere'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: centre ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[centro]] ''m''
*Latin: [[centrum]] ''n''
*Swedish: [[mitt]] ''c'', [[mittpunkt]] ''c'', [[centrum]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''point in the interior of figure with mean coordinates'''
{{top}}
*French: [[centre de masse]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''place where a function or activity occurs'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: centre ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[centro]] ''m''
*Latin: [[centrum]] ''n''
*Swedish: [[mittpunkt]] ''c'', [[centrum]] ''n'', [[center]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''topic of particular importance in a given context'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''basketball player who plays closest to the basket'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[center#Swedish|center]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the correct table(s) above.  NOTE: The numbering is wrong.

*Finnish: [[keskipiste]] (1-5), [[keskus]] (6)
*Slovak: [[stred]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[središče]] ''n'' (2,3,4,5,6) , [[sredina]] ''f'' (1), [[center]] ''m'' (8)

=== Adjective ===
'''center''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#Of, at, or related to a center.

====Synonyms====
*[[central]]

==== Translations ====
*Slovak: [[stredný]] -á -é, [[prostredný]] -á -é
*Swedish: [[central#Swedish|central]]

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|centr|e||}}

#To cause (an object) to occupy the center of an area.
#To cause (some [[attribute]], such as a [[mood]] or [[voltage]]) to be adjusted to a value which is midway between the [[extreme]]s.
#To [[concentrate]] on (something), to pay close attention to (something).

==== Translations ====

'''cause to occupy the center'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskittää]]
{{mid}}
*Slovak: [[dať do stredu]]
*Swedish: [[centrera]]
{{bottom}}

'''cause something to have a value midway between extremes'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskittää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''concentrate on'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskittyä]]
{{mid}}
*Slovak: [[sústrediť sa]]
*Swedish: [[koncentrera]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[central]]

----
==French==
===Noun===
'''centre''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''centres''')

# center (''US''), [[centre]] (''British'')

====Derived terms====
*[[Centre-Val-de-Loire]]
*[[centre-ville]]

===Related terms===
*[[centrafricain]]
*[[centrage]]
*[[central#French|central]]
*[[centraliser]]
*[[centrer]]
*[[centrifuge]]
*[[centripète]]
*[[centrisme]]
*[[centriste]]
[[da:Center]]
[[fr:center]]
[[gl:Center]]
[[io:Center]]
[[it:center]]
[[ja:center]]