{{See|center}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[center]] (''US'')
===Etymology===
From [[Ancient Greek]] [[κέντρον]] (''kentron'') "centre".

===Noun===
'''centre''' (''plural'' '''[[centres]]''') (''Commonwealth English'')

#{{geometry}} The point on a line that is [[midway]] between the [[end]]s.
#{{geometry}} The point in the interior of a [[circle]] that is [[equidistant]] from all points on the [[circumference]] of the circle.
#{{geometry}} The point in the interior of a [[sphere]] that is [[equidistant]] from all points on the [[surface]] of the sphere.
#{{geometry}} The point in the interior of any [[figure]] of any number of [[dimension]]s that has as its [[coordinates]] the [[arithmetic mean]] of the coordinates of all points on the [[perimeter]] of the figure.
# A place where some [[function]] or [[activity]] occurs.
#:''shopping centre''
#:''convention centre''
# A [[topic]] that is particularly [[important]] in a given context.
#:''the centre of the controversy''
#:''[[the centre of attention]]''
#{{basketball}} The player, generally the tallest, who plays closest to the basket.

====Synonyms====
*(''point on a line midway between the ends''): [[midpoint]]
*(''point in the interior of figure with mean coordinates''): [[centroid]], [[centre of gravity]]/[[center of gravity]], [[centre of mass]]/[[center of mass]]

====Derived terms====
*[[centrepiece]]/[[centerpiece]]
*[[community centre]]/[[community center]]
*[[shopping centre]]/[[shopping center]]

====Translations====

'''point on a line midway between the ends'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: [[milieu]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[centrum]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[centro]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[mitt]] ''c'', [[mittpunkt]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''point equidistant from all points on the perimeter of a circle'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: centre ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[centro]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[centro]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[mitt]] ''c'', [[mittpunkt]] ''c'', [[centrum]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''point equidistant from all points on the surface of a sphere'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: centre ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[centro]] ''m''
*Latin: [[centrum]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[centro]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[mitt]] ''c'', [[mittpunkt]] ''c'', [[centrum]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''point in the interior of figure with mean coordinates'''
{{top}}
*French: [[centre de masse]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''place where a function or activity occurs'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskipiste]]
*French: centre ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[centro]] ''m''
*Latin: [[centrum]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[centro]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[mittpunkt]] ''c'', [[centrum]] ''n'', [[center]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''topic of particular importance in a given context'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''basketball player who plays closest to the basket'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[center#Swedish|center]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the correct table(s) above.  NOTE: The numbering is wrong.

*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[stred]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[središče]] ''n'' (2,3,4,5,6) , [[sredina]] ''f'' (1), [[center]] ''m'' (8)

===Adjective===
'''centre''' (''no {{compar}} or {{superl}}'')

#Of, at, or related to a centre.

====Synonyms====
*[[central]]

====Translations====
*Slovak: [[stredný]] -á -é, [[prostredný]] -á -é
*Swedish: [[central#Swedish|central]]

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|centr|e||}}

#To cause (an object) to occupy the centre of an area.
#To cause (some [[attribute]], such as a [[mood]] or [[voltage]]) to be adjusted to a value which is midway between the [[extreme]]s.
#To [[concentrate]] on (something), to pay close attention to (something).

====Translations====

'''cause to occupy the centre'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskittää]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[centrar]]
*Slovak: [[dať do stredu]]
*Swedish: [[centrera]]
{{bottom}}

'''cause something to have a value midway between extremes'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskittää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''concentrate on'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keskittyä]]
{{mid}}
*Slovak: [[sústrediť sa]]
*Swedish: [[koncentrera]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[central]]

----
[[Category:Greek derivations]]

==French==
===Noun===
'''centre''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''centres''')

# centre (''British''), [[center]] (''US'')

====Derived terms====
*[[Centre-Val-de-Loire]]
*[[centre-ville]]

===Related terms===
*[[centrafricain]]
*[[centrage]]
*[[central#French|central]]
*[[centraliser]]
*[[centrer]]
*[[centrifuge]]
*[[centripète]]
*[[centrisme]]
*[[centriste]]
[[de:Centre]]
[[et:Centre]]
[[el:Centre]]
[[fr:centre]]
[[gl:Centre]]
[[io:Centre]]
[[it:centre]]
[[hu:centre]]
[[ja:centre]]
[[pt:Centre]]
[[fi:centre]]
[[sv:centre]]