{{context}}
{{importance}}
{{dictdef}}

A '''change order''' is a per-change charge for changes made to an order.  This is needed when the [[consumer|client]] is indecisive about the needed product. To be fair to the product designer, a charge per change is assessed before carrying out the modification. The price of modification could serve as a penalty to the client to discourage [[interative design]] and encourage pre-design analysis.

Change orders often occur in the context of a [[contractor]] and his client.  After the original contract is formed, complete with the total price to be paid and the specific work to be completed, a client may decide that the original plans do not best represent his desire for the finished project.  Accordingly, the client will suggest an alternate approach.  A contractor then typically generates a change order that describes the new work to be done (or not done in some cases), and the price to be paid for this new work.  Once this change order is submitted and approved it generally serves to alter the original contract such that the change order now becomes part of the contract.

In many cases contractors will bid a project in such a way that they will make almost no immediate profit.  However, through the inevitable change orders (particularly on larger projects) a contractor can often earn profits on the changes and thereby justify the original contract.  

{{business-stub}}
In the case of residential construction, change orders are necessary when a general contractor is hired to build a custom home. They serve to protect the customer, by documenting alterations and changes to the original specification. They serve to assist the builder, allowing him to be proactive in rescheduling the trades, and having a heads up on direct construction costs. When served from a computerized information system, change orders can be managed and agreed to easily, and they can update all of the tables necessary to serve new reports and other output. This cultivates good communication between the builder and the customer. One example of such an information system is called [http://www.buildintheblack.com/ Build In The Black]. You can [http://www.buildintheblack.com/estimating.php click here] to see short description of how this computer program handles change orders.