==English==
===Noun===
'''channel''' (''plural'' '''channels''')

#The physical confine of a river or [[slough]], consisting of a [[bed]] and [[bank]]s.
#: ''The water coming out of the waterwheel created a standing wave in the '''channel'''.
#The natural or man-made deeper course through a [[reef]], [[bar]], [[bay]], or any shallow [[body of water]].
#: ''A '''channel''' was dredged to allow ocean-going vessels to reach the city.''
#The [[navigable]] part of a river.
#: ''We were careful to keep our boat in the '''channel'''.''
#A narrow body of water between two land masses.
#: ''The English '''Channel''' lies between France and England.''
#''(electronics)'' A connection between initiating and terminating nodes of a circuit.
#: ''The guard-rail provided the '''channel''' between the downed wire and the tree.''
#''(communications)'' The part that connects a data source to a data sink.
#: ''A '''channel''' stretches between them.''
#''(communications)'' A path for conveying electrical or electromagnetic signals, usually distinguished from other parallel paths.
#: ''We are using one of the 24 '''channels'''.''
#''(communications)'' A single path provided by a transmission medium via physical separation, such as by multipair cable.
#: ''The '''channel''' is created by bonding the signals from these four pairs.''
#''(communications)'' A single path provided by a transmission via spectral or protocol separation, such as by frequency- or time-division multiplexing.
#: ''Their call is being carried on '''channel''' 6 of the T-1 line.''
#''(broadcasting)'' A specific radio frequency or band of frequencies, usually in conjunction with a predetermined letter, number, or codeword, and allocated by international agreement.
#: ''KNDD is the '''channel''' at 107.7 MHz in Seattle.''
#''(broadcasting)'' A specific radio frequency or band of frequencies used for transmitting [[television]].
#: ''NBC is on '''channel''' 11 in San Jose.''
#''(storage)'' The portion of a storage medium, such as a track or a band, that is accessible to a given reading or writing station or head.
#: ''This chip in this disk drive is the '''channel''' device.''
#''(technic)'' The way in a turbine pump where the pressur is build up.
#: ''The liquid is pressurized in the lateral '''channel'''.''

===verb===
'''channel''' 

#To direct the flow of something
#: ''We will '''channel''' the traffic to the left with these cones.
#To assume the personality of another person, typically a historic figure, in a theatrical or paranormal presentation
#: ''When it is my turn to sing Karaoke, I am going to '''channel''' Ray Charles.''


====Synonyms====
*(''narrow body of water between two land masses''): [[passage]], [[sound]], [[strait]]
*(''for television''): [[side]] (''dated British, from when there were only two channels''), [[station]] (''US'')

====Translations====

'''for television'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[chaîne]] ''f''
*Italian: [[canale]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Turkish: [[kanal]] 
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[channel-hopping]]
*[[ion channel]]

===See also===
*[[w:channel_(geography)|List of Wikipedia articles on channels in geography]]
*[[w:channel|List of Wikipedia articles on channels in telecommunications]]
[[Category:English words from Old French]]

[[fr:channel]]
[[gl:channel]]
[[io:channel]]
[[it:channel]]
[[hu:channel]]
[[fi:channel]]
[[zh:channel]]