{{wikipedia}}
{{see|chargé}}
==English==

{{rank|office|government|particular|602|charge|church|paper|object}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# Someone or something entrusted to one's care, i.e. a child to a babysitter.
# A [[load]] or [[burden]].
# The amount of money [[levy|levied]] for a [[service]].
# An [[instruction]].
# An [[impetuous]] [[attack]].
# An [[electric charge]].
# {{basketball}} An [[offensive foul]] in which the player with the ball moves into a stationary defender.

====Translations====
'''a load or burden'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[càrrega]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[læs]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[last]]
*Finnish: [[kuorma]]
*French: [[charge#French|charge]] {{f}}
*German: [[Last]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[carico]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[carga]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''the amount of money levied for a service'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[cost]] {{m}}, [[preu]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[veloitus]], [[hinta]]
*French: [[charge#French|charge]] {{f}}
*German: [[Entgelt]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[costo]] {{m}}, [[prezzo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[encargo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''an instruction'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[encàrrec]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[anklage]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[määräys]], [[tehtävä]]
*French: [[charge#French|charge]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[incarico]] {{m}}, [[compito]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[encargo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''an impetuous attack'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[càrrega]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[angreb]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[rynnäkkö]], [[hyökkäys]]
*French: [[charge#French|charge]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[carico]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[carga]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''an electromagnetic state'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[càrrega]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[ladning]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[lading]]
*Finnish: [[varaus]]
*French: [[charge#French|charge]] {{f}}
*German: [[Ladung]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[carica]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[carga]] [[elétrica]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[заряд]] (zar'ád) {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''an offensive foul'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[càrrega]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[carica]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|charg|ing}}

# To place a [[burden]] upon.
# To [[assign]] a [[duty]] to.
#: ''I'm charging you with cleaning up the kitchen.''
# To [[formal]]ly [[accuse]] of a [[crime]].
#: ''I'm charging you with grand theft auto.''
# To assign a [[debit]] to an [[account]].
#: ''Let's charge this to marketing.''
# To [[pay]] using a [[credit card]].
#: ''Can I charge this with my corporate card?''
# To cause to take on an [[electric]] charge.
#: ''Rubbing amber with wool will charge it quickly.''
# To move [[forward]] [[quick]]ly and [[force]]fully, particularly in [[combat]], on [[horseback]] or both.
# {{military}} To attack by moving forward quickly in a group.
# {{basketball}} To commit a charging [[foul]].
# {{cricket}} (of a [[batsman]]) To take a few steps doen the [[pitch]] towards the [[bowler]] as he [[deliver]]s the ball, either to [[disrupt]] the length of the delivery, or to get into a better [[position]] to hit the ball.
# To ready a [[firearm]] for use
#: ''Charge your weapons, we're moving up''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Italian: [[caricare]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[cargo]]
*[[charge up]]
*[[discharge]]
*[[in charge]]
*[[negative charge]]
*[[positive charge]]
*[[recharge]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ʃaʁʒ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /SaRZ/

===Noun===
'''charge''' {{f}}

# [[load]], charge

===Verb form===
'''charge'''

# ''first-, third-person singular indicative present of [[charger]]''
# ''first-, third-person singular subjunctive present of charger''
# ''second-person singular imperative of charger''

===Related terms===
*[[chargement]]
*[[charger]]

[[Category:English words from Old French]]

[[ar:charge]]
[[de:charge]]
[[et:charge]]
[[fr:charge]]
[[gl:charge]]
[[ko:charge]]
[[io:charge]]
[[it:charge]]
[[hu:charge]]
[[vi:charge]]
[[zh:charge]]