==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
The etymology is unclear, but the word probably has Romany origins – compare Romany [[chavi]] ‘male child’, [[chavo]] ‘female child’, [[chal]] ‘boy’, [[chavvy]] ‘mate, friend’.  It thus may be related to [[charva]] (from Romany [[charver]] ‘prostitute’), and Spanish [[chaval]] (which does not have pejorative connotations).  It seems to have originated in the south-east and may represent a development of, or influence from, certain towns names including [[w:Chatham|Chatham]] (which has a Romany community), [[w:Cheltenham|Cheltenham]] or [[w:Chaddesden|Chaddesden]].  More doubtful theories include the notion that it comes from Nigerian-London slang [[chaff]] ‘lower-class person’.  As the word became more widespread, a variety of [[backronym]]s have also been suggested ('''C'''ouncil '''H'''ouse '''A'''nd '''V'''iolent, '''C'''ouncil '''H'''ouse '''A'''ssociated '''V'''ermin, etc.), all equally justified. The latest acronym is '''C'''ouncil '''H'''oused '''A'''ssociated '''V'''ermin with '''S'''ocially '''C'''rippled '''U'''nder-Developed '''M'''inds (CHAVSCUM). Chavs are widely recognised as scum of the earth by many, if not all, societies.

====References====
* [http://www.timesonline.co.uk/printFriendly/0,,1-2-1316759,00.html "Good news for chavs: they may be cool people soon"] by Robin Young, ''The Times'', 2004-10-19, accessed 2005-04-15
* [http://www.worldwidewords.org/topicalwords/tw-cha2.htm World Wide Words: chav], by Michael Quinion, accessed 2005-04-15
* [http://www.theanswerbank.co.uk/People_and_Places/Question94885.html Posting by "Quizmonster" in The Answer Bank, 2005-02-22], accessed 2005-04-15
* [http://www.frizzylogic.org/archives/000470.html Posting by "Dick Jones" in FrizzyLogic, 2004-03-19], accessed 2005-04-15
* [http://www.ireland.com/newspaper/motoring/2005/0323/3158965614MOT23EMISSIONS.html "The Chavs are Coming"], ''The Irish Times'' 2005-03-23, accessed 2005-04-15
* Bragg, M. 'The Adventure of English', London, Hodder and Stoughton, 2003: 26.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/ʧæv/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æv|-æv]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# {{italbrac|British|derogatory|informal}} An urban working-class youth: especially as associated with aggression, poor education, and a perceived ‘common’ taste in clothing and lifestyle.
# {{italbrac|British|friendly|informal}} A label used to refer to someone who regularly dresses in casual sports clothing, has a taste for dance and pop music, and is able to talk to younger people on informal terms.

===Synonyms===
See [[WikiSaurus:chav]]

====Derived terms====
*[[chavalier]]
*[[chavette]]
*[[chavster]]
*[[chavtastic]]
*[[chavvy]] (or "chavy"?)
*[[chavalanche]]
*[[chavving]]

====Related words====
*[[scally]]
*[[ned]]
*[[mush]]
*[[pikey]]

[[Category:UK]]