==English==

===Pronunciation===
*chēk, /tʃiːk/, /<tt>tSi:k</tt>/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# (''anatomy'') The soft skin on each side of the face, below the eyes; the outer surface of the sides of the oral cavity.<!--prefer "oral cavity" to "mouth" for clarity; "mouth" could mean "lips" - Paul G, 1 February 2005-->
# (''colloquial''; ''usually in plural'') A [[buttock]].
# (''colloquial'') [[Impudence]].
#:''You've got some '''cheek''', asking me for money!''

====Synonyms====
*(''impudence''):
**(''standard''): [[impertinence]], [[impudence]]
**(''colloquial/slang''): [[brass neck]], [[nerve]], [[sass]] (''especially US'')

====Derived terms====
*[[cheekbone]]
*[[cheeky]]

====Translations====
'''of face'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[obraz#Bosnian|obraz]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[obraz#Croatian|obraz]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[wang]] ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[vango]]
*French: [[joue]] ''f''
*German: [[Wange]] ''f'', [[Backe]] ''f'' (coll.)
*Finnish: [[poski]]
*[[Ido]] : vango
*Italian: [[guancia]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[뺨]] bbyam
*[[Kurdish]]:
:[[Kurmanji]]: [[gep]] ''f'', [[alek]] ''f''
*Polish: [[policzek]] ''m''
*Russian: [[щека]] ''f'' (shcheká)
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[образ#Serbian|образ]] {{m}}
*:Roman: [[obraz#Serbian|obraz]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[lice]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[mejilla]] ''f''
*Ukrainian: [[щока]] ''f'' (shchoká)
*Swedish: [[kind]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: buttock'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bil]] ''f''
*French: [[fesse]] ''f''
*German: [[Backe]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[chiappa]] ''f''
*[[Kurdish]]:
:[[Kurmanji]]: [[qalçe]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: impudence'''
{{top}}
*French: [[culot]] ''m'', [[toupet]] ''m''
*German: [[Stirn]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|cheek||}}

# To be impudent towards.
#:''Don't '''cheek''' me, you little rascal!''

===Surname===


The word [[Cheek]] is also an old family surname from Anglo-Saxon England that predates the Norman invasion. The Cheek family was among the first to immigrate to the US colonies in the early 17th century.

The family crest is a white shield with three red crescents.

http://cheekfamilychronicles.homestead.com/CheekFamilyChronicles.html

Some prominent members of the Cheek family:

*Michael Case Cheek, Rear Admiral, USN (aboard the USS Missouri for the Japanese Surrender in WWII)

*James Richard Cheek, U.S. Ambassador

*Joey Cheek, Olympic Gold Medal speedskater

*Joel Owsley Cheek, Maxwell House Coffee founder

*Sir John Cheke , 16th century tutor to King Edward VI, (and immortalized in a poem by Paradise Lost author, John Milton)

*Brig. General William Cheek Smartt (Rev. War and War of 1812 soldier, and signer of the 1835 Tennessee State Constitution)

*Mrs. Sonara Smart Dodd, Founder of Father's Day, (daughter of Mrs. Ellen Victoria Cheek-Smart)

*Mrs. Catherine Ann Cheek-Ellington, First Lady of Tennessee (during the Assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King)

[[ko:cheek]]
[[io:cheek]]
[[it:cheek]]
[[pl:cheek]]
[[fi:cheek]]
[[zh:cheek]]