{{Otheruses4|business metaphor|the ancient China fortification|Great Wall of China}}
 {{Copy to Wiktionary}}
{{Weasel}}
{{Peacock}}

In business terms, ''Chinese Walls'' are information barriers implemented in firms to seperate and isolate persons within a firm who make investment decisions from persons within a firm who are privy to undisclosed material information which may influence those decisions. In general, all firms are required to develop, implement and enforce reasonable policies and procedures to safeguard inside information and ensure there is no improper trading. Although specific procedures are not mandated, those adopted must be in writing and be appropriate and sufficient in the circumstances. Procedures should address the following areas:

-Education of employees;

-Containment of inside information;

-Restriction of transactions; and

-Trading surveillance.

Procedures to contain inside information include the establishment of physically spereate areas where person who routinely handle inside information are located, security over files, security over the electronic transmission of information and prohibiting the discussion of the information except where necessary, and recording who becomes privy to thee information, when and why.



The term was coined in the United States following the [[stock market]] [[crash of 1929]].  The U.S. government saw the need to maintain separation (or an information barrier) between [[investment bank]]ers and brokerage firms.  This was intended to limit the conflict of interest between objective analysis of companies and the desire to have a successful [[initial public offering]].  Rather than regulate for physical separation, or even prohibiting one company conducting both sorts of transactions, the government allowed such companies to maintain a "Chinese wall" as a form of [[gentlemen's agreement]].

==Racist Term==
At least one California judge has taken offense to the phrase "Chinese Wall."  Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. v.Superior Court 200 Cal.App.3d 272, 293-294, 245 Cal.Rptr. 873, 887-888 (1988) (Low, Presiding Justice, concurring), wrote:

    I concur in the opinion of Justice Haning, but write separately to comment on the
    apparently widespread use of the term "Chinese Wall" to describe the type of
    screening mechanism discussed in this case. While our opinion uses the term
    "screen," both the parties and the trial court used the term "Chinese Wall,"which
    seems to have become a term of art. I write to express my profound objection to the
    use of this phrase in this context.

    The origin of the use of "Chinese Wall" in the context of confidentiality is
    unclear. Evidently, the term was casually coined in some appellate opinion, then
    picked up and used without question or explanation by courts and commentators. The
    unquestioned use of the term was perpetuated by a leading note on the subject, The
    Chinese Wall Defense to Law Firm Disqualification (1980) 128 U.Pa.L.Rev. 677, which
    is otherwise analytical and informative. (See lead opn., fn. 2, p. 878.)

    The enthusiasm for handy phrases of verbal shorthand is understandable.
    Occasionally, however, lawyers and judges use a term which is singularly
    inappropriate. "Chinese Wall" is one such piece of legal flotsam which should be
    emphatically abandoned. The term has an ethnic focus which many would consider a
    subtle form of linguistic discrimination. Certainly, the continued use of the term
    would be insensitive to the ethnic identity of the many persons of Chinese descent.
    Modern courts should not perpetuate the biases which creep into language from
    outmoded, and more primitive, ways of thought.

    It may be sobering to recall that little more than a century ago our own Supreme
    Court held that persons of Chinese ancestry could not testify in court against a
    person of Caucasian descent. In People v. Hall (1854) 4 Cal. 399, 404, the court,
    speaking through Chief Justice Hugh C. Murray, declared that "[t]he same rule which
    would admit them to testify, would admit them to all the equal rights of
    citizenship, and we might soon see them at the polls, in the jury box, upon the
    bench, and in our legislative halls." It is worth noting, given recent events on the
    American political stage, that language and attitudes once embodied in a judicial
    opinion would now lead to the removal of a Governor, and membership in groups
    adhering to those attitudes could lead to denial of confirmation for high public
    office.

    Aside from this discriminatory flavor, the term "Chinese Wall" is being used to
    describe a barrier of silence and secrecy. The barrier itself may work to further
    the cause of ethics in litigation; but the term ascribed to that barrier will
    necessarily be associated with constraints on the freedom of open communication. To
    employ in this context the image of the Great Wall of China, one of the magnificent
    wonders of the world and a structure of great beauty, is particularly inappropriate.
    One can imagine the response to the negative use of the images of the Eiffel Tower,
    the Great Pyramids of Cheops, or the Colossus of Rhodes.

    Finally, "Chinese Wall" is not even an architecturally accurate metaphor for the
    barrier to communication created to preserve confidentiality. Such a barrier
    functions as a hermetic seal to prevent two-way communication between two groups.
    The Great Wall of China, on the other hand, was only a one-way barrier. It was built
    to keep outsiders out-not to keep insiders in.

    It is necessary to raise a clenched cry for jettisoning the outmoded legal jargon of
    a bygone time. If the image of a wall must be used, perhaps "ethics wall" is more
    suitable phraseology.

==Finance==
The concept of a Chinese Wall is that of establishing a zone of non-communication between distinct sections of a business, in order to prevent possible (and probable) [[conflict of interest]].

A Chinese Wall is most commonly employed in [[investment bank]]s, where such banks offer corporate finance services to companies (managing the fund-raising, for example), and at the same time also provide financial research information to a more general audience.

Because it is possible to manipulate the financial research reports to encourage the general public to purchase [[stock|shares]] in a company (for example), the conflict of interest arises when such a company is also the customer of this particular investment bank.

In fact, despite Chinese walls, these situations of conflict of interest allegedly arose during the heydays of the "[[dot com]]" gold rush, where research analysts essentially marketed companies of which they, or related parties, own shares. By putting out positive research advice, or even simply by choosing to talk about their client amongst the thousands of possible companies they might have discussed, the share price of these companies could be boosted without regard for actual financial worthiness. In a way, this was one of the many factors contributing to the dotcom "[[Stock market bubble|bubble]]" which eventually burst around the first half of 2000, resulting in a lengthy sluggishness in world markets for years to come.

The U.S. government has since passed laws improving the Chinese Wall concept (e.g. [[Sarbanes-Oxley Act]]) to hopefully prevent such grievous dereliction of duty by research analysts and their banking employers.

There are some who critique the Chinese wall, saying that it prevents some small companies from being properly valued, since without the ability to get exposure via a tie-in with the investment bank, most investors would simply not know about them.

==Law==
The Chinese wall is also used in [[law firm]]s in situations where one part of the firm, which is representing a party on a deal or [[litigation]], is separate from another part of the firm that might otherwise have an adverse effect on the party's interests.  In some cases in the [[Britain|United Kingdom]] a law firm may represent both parties, but only if there is no communication between partners.

==Journalism==
The term is also used in [[journalism]] to describe the separation between the editorial and [[advertising]] arms of a media firm.

The Chinese wall is regarded as breached for [[advertorial]] projects.

==Computer science==
In [[computer science]], there are two common areas of usage:  Reverse engineering and computer security.

Chinese wall refers to a [[reverse engineering]] method involving two separate groups.  One group reverse-engineers the original code and writes thorough documentation, while the other group writes new code based only on the new documentation.  The first group never writes new code, and the second group never looks at the original code.  This method insulates the new code from the old code, so that the new code is not considered a derived work of the old code.  See also [[clean room design]].

The Chinese Wall Model is a security model where read/write accesses to files are governed by membership of data in conflict-of-interest classes and datasets.  This is the basic model used to provide both privacy and integrity for data.

== Metaphor and myth ==
The term Chinese wall may refer to the [[Great Wall of China]], and to its scale and effectiveness at separating one side from the other.

It is more likely to refer to a traditional practice among Chinese mandarins in the Late Imperial period.  Theoretically if a junior mandarin saw a senior mandarin on the road he was expected to bow and present his compliments.  In [[Beijing]] this tended to happen quite a lot and so traffic was frequently blocked.  Instead mandarins came up with a method of pretending they did not see each other on the road by the clever placing of a retainer with an umbrella.  Because they did not "see" each other, they were not obliged to stop.  In effect they placed a "Chinese wall" between themselves.

==See also==
*[[Glass-Steagall Act]]

[[Category:Finance terms]]
[[Category:History of China]]
[[Category:Informal legal terms]]
[[Category:Journalism]]
[[Category:Data security]]
[[Category:Software design patterns]]

[[de:Chinese Wall (Finanzwelt)]]