==English==
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: chī'nə
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˈtʃaɪnə/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /"tSaIn@/

===Proper noun===
'''China'''

# Country in East Asia. Official name: People's Republic of China.
# Region in East Asia comprising the areas governed by the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China ([[Taiwan]]).
# The civilisation (civilization - Americanism) of the Chinese people.



====Translations====
*Arabic: [[الصين]] (as-sīn)
*[[Breton]]: [[Sina]]
*Chinese: simplified Chinese: [[中国]] ([[pinyin]]: Zhōngguó) ; traditional Chinese: [[中國]] ([[pinyin]]: Zhōngguó)
*Czech: [[Čína]]
*Danish: [[Kina]]
*Dutch: China
*[[Esperanto]]: [[Ĉinio]], [[Ĉinujo]], [[Ĥinujo]]
*Finnish: [[Kiina]]
*French: [[Chine]]
*German: China
*Greek: [[Κίνα]]
*Hindi: [[चीन]] (cīn)
*Hungarian: [[Kína]]
*Indonesian: China, [[Cina]]
*[[Interlingua]]: China
*Italian: [[Cina]]
*Japanese: [[中国]] (ちゅうごく, chūgoku)
*Korean: [[중국]] [中國] (jungguk)
*Malay: [[Tiongkok]]
*[[Pahlavi]] [[čīnī]]
*Persian: [[چين]] (čīn)
*Polish: [[Chiny]]
*Portuguese: China ''f''
*Romanian: China ''f''
*[[Sanskrit]]: [[चीन]]
*Russian: [[Китай]] (Kitay)
*Slovene: [[Kitajska]] ''f''
*Spanish: China
*Swedish: [[Kina]]
*Turkish: [[Çin]]
*[[Urdu]]: [[چين]] (čīn)
*Vietnamese: [[Trung quốc]]

====See also====
*[[Cathay]]
*[[w:China in world languages]]
*[[Countries of the world]]

===Noun===
'''china'''

#[[Ceramic]] or [[porcelain]] <!-- isn't it just one type of porcelain? [[User:Hippietrail|Hippietrail]] 08:19, 20 Feb 2004 (UTC) -->
#Teacups, saucers, etc made from china.
#Rhyming slang for 'mate' (partner), as in 'china plate'.
#A type of cymbal used in a drumset.  It has a 'trashy', swishy sound, and can either be ridden or crashed.  Usually 16"-20".

====Related terms====
*[[bone china]]

====Translations====
*Chinese Characters: [[炻]]<!-- just one kind of china -->
*Italian: [[porcellana]] ''f'' (1)

===Adjective===
'''china'''

# made of china.

----

==Dutch==
===Proper noun===
'''China'''

# China the country.

----

==German==
===Proper noun===
'''China'''

# China the country.

----

==Indonesian==
===Proper noun===
'''China'''

===Alternate spellings===
*[[Cina]]

# China the country.

----

==[[Interlingua]]==
===Proper noun===
'''China'''

# China the country.

----

==Portuguese==
===Proper noun===
'''China''' ''f''

# China the country.

----

==Romanian==
===Proper noun===
'''China''' ''f''

# China the country.

----

==Spanish==
===Proper noun===
'''China'''

# China the country.

[[Category:English country nouns]]