==English==

===Etymology===
Sometimes claimed to be from Indian vernacular for ''[[fuck]]'', though no confirmation has been found.
Chodes come in many different forms. For one, someone with a name like Lachlan is always at risk of being called a chode. This can be backed up by someone calling him Lach-Chode (a word comprised of Lachlan and Chode) and telling someones mum that is actually their real name. Chode is actually a humerous word! Lets all take a minute to laugh at it!........................................................................is that enouph time? No? ok heres more time..............................................................................There we go. Another form of Chode is Phlanchet in The Three Musketeers. He, or should we say her, is always a chode. Quote from Three Musketeers, said by Phlanchet "Ive never been to england before". This is a huge example of a chode. Another line is where phlanchet talks about how nice roast beef is. All we can say to that line is CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE! CHODE!, one more for good luck........CHODE!. This concludes our special presentation on the word Chode for the 9 Network Australia entitled, "You Know When Your a Chode When You Are Asked to Play Phlanchet".

===Alternative spellings===
*[[chode]]
*[[choda]]

===Noun===
'''choad'''

# (''vulgar, slang'') A [[penis]].
#*'''circa 1970''', S Clay Wilson <ref>[http://groups.google.co.uk/group/alt.tasteless/browse_thread/thread/d66fcaf14463a604/aa16f8d38e89f759?lnk=st&q=choad&rnum=15&hl=en#aa16f8d38e89f759 google groups secondary source]</ref>
#*:Your '''choad''' veins are pulsing love songs
#*'''1986''', Robert Crumb, ''Zap Comix'', Vol. 3, unpaged
#*:What a find...a giant '''choad'''!
#*'''1993''', Richard J. McCunney ''alt.sex.masturbation'' wanking 101 <ref>[http://groups.google.co.uk/group/alt.sex.masturbation/browse_frm/thread/7a3f89fe61416684/739ce9f0f1d31231?lnk=st&q=choad&rnum=26&hl=en#739ce9f0f1d31231 google groups archive]</ref>
#*:We all wank, sonny wiggles his willy, daddy plays with the meat in an orderly and rational way, and granddad's '''choad''' also delivers on a regular basis.
# (''vulgar, derogatory, slang'') A [[loser]] or undesirable person; an [[insulting]] name.
#*'''1985''', Kevin Carosso, ''fa-info.vax usenet group'' VMS terminal I/O question <ref>[http://groups.google.co.uk/group/fa.info-vax/browse_thread/thread/2a011161cc3cf98b/5f2b1b628f3b8653?lnk=st&q=choad&rnum=1&hl=en#5f2b1b628f3b8653 google groups archive]</ref>
#*:If you aren't the type of system manager that likes to be nice to the '''choad''' that forgot to log out, then the program has it's other uses
#*'''1992''', x3460afe, ''alt.music.alternative usenet group'' sonic fags <ref>[http://groups.google.co.uk/group/alt.music.alternative/browse_thread/thread/3264867aa93b55b2?hl=en google groups archive]</ref>
#*:sebadoh blew sonic youth off the stage, you stupid '''choad'''
#*'''1997''', Matt Stone and Trey Parker, ''South Park'', epsiode 107: ''Pinkeye''
#*:''Stan:'' Oh man, I feel like a total '''choad'''.
#*:''Cartman:'' Aw, come on Stan. Maybe that's just because you ''look'' like a total '''choad'''.

====Synonyms====
*(''loser''): [[dick]]

===References===
* The Mavens' Word of the Day, 2000 May 31, Random House [http://www.randomhouse.com/wotd/index.pperl?date=20000531]
<references/>