'''Christianese''' (or ''[[Bible]]-speak'') refers to the contained terms and jargon used within the main branches and denominations of [[Christianity]] as a functional system of [[religious terminology]]. 
It is characterised by the use in everyday conversation of certain words, [[theological]] terms, and [[catchphrases]], in ways that may be only comprehensible within the context of Christian belief. 

In the developed Christian context, particular terms (inc. names) like ''[[God]] and [[Christ]]'' (or ''[[Jesus]]'') as well as more common terms such as [[faith]], [[truth]], and [[spirit]] have a rich history of meaning to refer to concepts in [[spirituality]], which Christians may consider to be particular to Christianity, and not available to dissimilar or distantly foreign [[belief system]]s. While particuar terms may have some functional translatability to concepts in other systems (for example in ''[[Buddhism]]''), such translations may typically be controversial outside of the forum of [[comparative religion]]. Because terms interoperate in a closed system, Christians may consider the use of such terms outside of Christianity or their particular branch (or denomination) as a distortion. 

The term "Christianese" is an informal and sometimes pejorative [[exonym]] from [[secular]] culture to refer to the language of terms used in Christianity as contained and, in some cases, deliberately or effectively uncooperative with secular and foreign terms.
Certain denominations &mdash;contemporary [[Pentecostalism]] and [[Evangelicalism]] for example &mdash;may be more widely considered as users of a distinctly [[localism|localised]] variant of Christianese.

A minority of Christian communicators have realized that "Christianese" is
incomprehensible or off-putting to outsiders, and suggest that it is possible to express all Christian truth in neutral language, with little or no use of religious words other than "God", "Jesus" and "Bible".

== Elements ==
In its basic form, Christianese uses theological and/or Biblical terms to describe matters of faith and everyday experiences as interpreted through a filter of faith and doctrine. The words and phrases used are known to the speaker of the wider language (e. g. [[English language|English]]); however, without an understanding of the passage of [[Bible]], issue of theology, or (sometimes) specific doctrine at the forefront of the mind of the speaker, the listener has no context to understand what is being said.  For example, a phrase like, ''"Washed in the blood"'' in Christianese means ''"My sins are forgiven because I believe in the terms of [[salvation]] as defined by [[Jesus]]."''  However, without an understanding of Jesus, what he did, or what his actions mean in the Christian theology of the speaker, such statements are not understood by the listener or listeners.

Sometimes traditional language remains in use down through generations when language usage generally has moved on. For example, "Laid aside on a bed of sickness" can be used instead of "ill"; "travelling mercies" instead of "safety on your journey". This form of jargon is not fundamentally based in Bible texts but in tradition.

==Special Lexicography==
There is a significantly but not entirely independent Christianese within the Roman church; given that Roman church terminology is dictated by the authorities of Rome, it is suggested that the authorized Roman lexicography be employed for inquiry thereto.  There are other authoritative lexicons within other groups within Christianity, but these lexicons are considerably less independent, and their adherents are often (but not always) less concerned with their specifics.

==Lexicon==
Below are a few examples of Christianese terms, and what they mean.  

*'''Anointed''': Chosen.  Usually descriptive of a person, as in "Pastor Bob is a really anointed leader." Carries the meaning that someone is particularly well suited for a certain task or position while implying that God is responsible. Additional meanings include, ''blessed'' (''see below''), ''protected'', or ''empowered''.  Many Christian groups do not use this term, but it is particularly common in [[Charismatic movement|Charismatic]] circles.
*'''Backsliding''': The actions of a Christian who seems to be losing their faith or behaving in an "un-Christian" manner. ('''Backslider.''')
*'''Blessed''': A feeling of personal well-being, especially as connected with a casual religious experience or a religious interpretation of everyday experiences.
*'''Blessed and highly favoured''': A common reply to an inquiry of "how are you?", meant to imply that all is well and has been well; a reflection of one's personal standing with God, or a result of one's perceived status because of some religious affiliation or doctrinal adherence.
*'''Brother''': a fellow believer in Christ, shortened from the phrase '''brother in Christ'''.  Often pluralized as '''brethren'''.  In the plural there is no implication as to gender, but in the singular a female believer is generally called a '''sister'''.  The mainstream colloquial use of the term '''brother''' to mean an African-American man probably derives indirectly from this usage.
*'''Blood, The''', short for the blood of Christ (and by extension the atoning sacrifice of Christ) is sometimes used to mean the essence or spirit of Christ. One who is already saved depends on the Blood to keep him on the path of righteousness.  '''The Blood''', insofar as it refers to the death of Jesus, is also the mechanism of redeption and atonement.
*'''[[Born Again]]''' (can be used as a noun or an adjective): A Christian who has come to a belief in Christianity, especially evangelical Christianity, as an adult and has experienced a spiritual rebirth. May also refer to formerly liberal Christians who adopt evangelical Christianity.  This terminology derives from a [[metaphor]] used by [[Jesus]] in his discussion with [[Nicodemus]] in [[Gospel of John|John]] 3.
*'''Dingledork''' ''or'' '''dingledorkia''': A person who is silly and uncuth, a Christian version of a nerd. Dingledorkia is the church that dingledorks attend.
*'''Discipleship''' ''or'' '''discipling''': The process, normally understood as one-on-one, of a believer teaching another believer about the Christian life. In the Roman Catholic Church, this is called '''spiritual formation'''.  See also [[Great Commission]].
*'''Exactness''': Perfection in everyday life, adhering so strictly to Biblical laws and ethics as to do nothing that is not obedient to the will of God.  This terminology is not used by all Christian groups; even some [[Pietism|pietist]] groups do not use it.
*'''Fellowship''': A sense of belonging to a community, either within a specific church or within Christianity as a widespread religion.  This can also refer to socializing exclusively with other Christians.  Some individuals and groups consider such exclusivity to be an important factor in spiritual growth and/or [[righteousness]]. Fellowship is also used as a verb, meaning to spend time together with others.
*'''Good News, The''': Can refer to the [[Bible]], the [[New Testament]] or the [[Gospel]]s.  Can also refer to the general Christian doctrine of personal salvation through belief in Jesus Christ's [[divinity]] and teachings. Good news is the literal meaning of gospel, an Old English word from the roots got (God) and spel (news). The gospel is specifically the message that Jesus Christ is God the Son who died for sins and rose from the grave, providing forgiveness and the gift of eternal life to all who trust in him to save them.
*'''Made right with God''': Refers to the "reconciliation" of the believer with God.  Can refer to an individual's initial religious conversion (see ''saved'') or to a backslider's recovery of faith or principles.
*'''Ministry''': Not limited to those who are employed as pastors or church workers; expanded to include the compassionate interaction of Christian believers with those they care about and with their communities.
*'''Mission''': Christian activities which serve the church or the community.  This can include "outreach", "servant-evangelism" or any other activity which seeks to interest non-believers in Christianity.
*'''Non-Christian''' ''or'' '''pre-Christian''': People who are not Christians. (pre-Christian is extremely rare, and almost never used).
*'''On fire for God''': Excited about Christianity, especially "outreach" (see below).
*'''Outreach''': The process of taking the Christian message to people who are not Christians, usually with the connotation of doing so through servant-evangelism-like activities.
*'''Redeemed''': The verb ''redeem'' is used in the sense of "purchase, ransom, rescue, free". The speaker believes that through his or her faith he or she has been "rescued" them from the spiritual consequences of their actions or previous lack of belief.  This is a fairly close synonym for ''saved'', above.  The idea of purchase is most clearly reflected in the phrase '''Redeemed by the blood''', which refers to the doctrine of [[substitutionary atonement]].  Several popular hymns are built on this sense of the term.
*'''Sanctified''':The common dictionary definition is "to make holy or purify"; in Christianese this is usually applied to individuals rather than objects.  Often a synonym for ''born again'' or ''saved''.
*'''Saved''': Spared from the consequences of sin (i. e. [[Hell]] after death) by repentance and belief in Christ, submitting to him as Lord of one's life. Some Christians casually use "saved" as a synonym for "Christian".
*'''Servant-Evangelism''': Demonstrations of [[charity]], either (1) organized, such as a free car-wash, or (2) individual, such as paying for a stranger's meal) in order to demonstrate Christian principles through actions, attempting to arouse spiritual curiosity.
*'''Sharing''': Sharing the Gospel, evangelism. Also simply imparting truth or passing on personal experience with God or Christian truth.  When used as a noun (especially as '''the Sharing'''), the term refers to [[Communion]] in general and the [[love feast]] in particular.
*'''Signs of the times''': Current world events correlated with certain passages of the Bible, which are interpreted as prophecies indicating the [[second coming]] of Christ. See [[millennialism]].
*'''Sister''': a fellow believer in Christ, female.  (See also '''Brother''' above.)
*'''Slain in the Spirit'''. An experience in which some Christians believe that the physical power of God causes people to fall to the ground. See [[laying on of hands]]. This is an important part of Pentecostal and Charismatic beliefs, but it is not included in the doctrine of many other denominations.
*'''Unchurched''': A controversial term in some churches (primarily [[Methodist]] and [[Wesleyan]] denominations) for those who are not saved. Critics allege that the term takes emphasis away from sin, applying it instead to chuch attendance.
*'''Walk with God''': The practice of applying Christian principles and beliefs to everyday life.  (From the Greek, &pi;&epsilon;&rho;&iota;&pi;&alpha;&tau;&epsilon;&omega;, which can be translated into English as either "walk" or "live".  Some English translations of the Bible sometimes made (arguably) the wrong choice, but many Christians were able to infer the actual meaning from context, and so this alternate meaning for '''walk''' became common.)
*'''Witness''' ''or'' '''Witnessing''': Telling someone how and why you are a Christian, generally on a one-to-one basis.  Explaining the gospel and/or trying to persuade another person to believe it.  See also [[Evangelism]].  '''Witness''' as a noun also refers to reputation, as in '''maintaining a respectable witness'''.  The word '''testimony''' is also used in this way.

==Criticism among Christians==
Some Christians view some or all of these terms as [[cliche]]s. The belief that Christianese has hindered the communication of the Christian message to the rest of the world has led some Christian writers to advocate the conscious removal of Christianese from believers' conversations and writing.  Many have also come up with alternative terms and phrases that are theoretically more "religion-neutral".  While the effectiveness of this strategy is undetermined, there is a feeling among some Christian communicators that this may be simply creating a condensed form of Christianese but failing to address the underlying issue of contextual understanding. Also, since some Christianese terms are based on legitimate theological and/or biblical terminology (e.g., born again), discouraging their use can undermine informal instruction of those who are new to the faith.

==Christianese in popular culture==
The appearance of Christianese in popular culture generally occurs in two forms: when it is actually used by writers to communicate (whether they are aware of it or not), or in [[parody|parodical]] or [[satire|satirical]] contexts.

Probably the most noticeable use of Christianese as satire is in [[The Simpsons]] character of [[Ned Flanders]] and his sons Rod and Tod. Though Ned's speaking style is littered with nonsensical phrases (like ''hi-diddly-ho'') which are not related to Christianese, Ned also employs Christianese terms. For example, in the episode where [[Homer Simpson]] floods [[Springfield (The Simpsons)|Springfield]] as a [[conceptual art]] project, Ned looks out his window and exclaims: ''"It's a miracle. The Lord has drowned the wicked and spared the righteous!"''. Rod and Tod show a quality of Christianese in the games that they play, such as ''The Good Samaritan'', ''Clothe the Leper'' and ''Build the Mission''.

Books and movies which engage Christianese as a literary style are commonly found in the Christian market. Arguably the most notable of these (and, indeed, most popular) are the [[Left Behind (series)|Left Behind series]] by [[Tim LaHaye]] and [[Jerry B. Jenkins]]. This book series (currently made up of thirteen installments) is deeply rooted in [[dispensationalist]] theology and could be said to be written in Christianese (books eleven and twelve perhaps more so than the rest of the series). When the first three installments were adapted into motion pictures by the Christian film company [[Cloud Ten Pictures]], the Christianese style of writing was folded into the dialogue, offering a clear example of Christianese in speech.

==See also==
*[[Christian]]
*[[Lark News]], Christian satirical newsletter, employing heavy Christianese for comedic effect
*[[Slang]]
*[[Metaphorical language]]

==External links==
* [http://www.jcsm.org/biblelessons/cliches.htm The Christian Cliches]
* [http://www.christianrecovery.com/vb/archive/index.php/t-17.html Christianese translator @ Christianrecovery.com]
* [http://www.availablelightonline.com/christianese.html Christianese at Availablelight Online]
* [http://www.chass.utoronto.ca/~cpercy/courses/6362-baker.htm Christianese: “Low” Church Jargon in Contemporary North America]
* [http://www.christianitytoday.com/le/2004/002/3.33.html The Language of Planet Zion] at christianitytoday.com

== References ==
* [http://www.dictionary.com Dictionary.com]
* [http://www.wordspy.com/words/Christianese.asp Word Spy entry for 'Christianese']
* [http://lexicon.rail.com/phpLexicon/ The Christianese Lexicon forum]
* [http://guide.gospelcom.net/resources/jargon.php Using the Right Words - Insider Language Excludes People]
* ''The Gospel According to the Simpsons'' by [[Mark I. Pinsky]]. Published by Westminster John Knox Press, Louisville. 2001.
* [http://www.spirithome.com/thechurc.html Churchly-word meanings] (where they might actually have meaning)


[[Category:Language varieties and styles]]