==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-chum.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology1===
from chambermate?
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[friend]]; a [[pal]].
#:''I ran into an old '''chum''' from school the other day.''
# A [[roommate]].
#*'''1856''' in ''The Knickerbocker: Or, New-York Monthly Magazine'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=LCCN01002996&id=N_dFtyzEqFsC&pg=PA161&lpg=PA161&dq=chum&as_brr=1]
#*:Field had a ''''chum,'''' or room-mate, whose visage was suggestive to the 'Sophs;' it invited experiment; it held out opportunity for their peculiar deviltry.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|chum|m|ed}}
# To make friends with; to [[socialize]].
#*'''1902''' Joseph Conrad, ''Heart of Darkness'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=text&offset=171546995&textreg=1&query=chummed&id=ConDark]
#*:"I was not surprised to see somebody sitting aft, on the deck, with his legs dangling over the mud. You see I rather '''chummed''' with the few mechanics there were in that station, whom the other pilgrims naturally despised -- on account of their imperfect manners, I suppose. This was the foreman -- a boiler-maker by trade -- a good worker...
#*'''1902''' Ernest William Hornung, ''The Amateur Cracksman'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=362005073&tag=Hornung,+Ernest+William:+The+Amateur+Cracksman,+1902&query=chummed&id=HorAmat]
#*:"You'll make yourself disliked on board!"
#*:"By von Heumann merely."
#*:"But is that wise when he's the man we've got to diddle?"
#*:"The wisest thing I ever did. To have '''chummed''' up with him would have been fatal -- the common dodge." 
#To [[room]] together.
#*'''1899''' Clyde Bowman Furst, ''A Group of Old Authors'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC00501560&id=qTQ1ql-_PGIC&pg=PA19&lpg=PA19&dq=chummed&as_brr=1]
#*:Henry Wotton and John Donne began to be friends when, as boys, they '''chummed''' together at Oxford, where Donne had gone at the age of twelve years.

===Etymology2===
etymology unknown
===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}
#{{cattag|fishing}} A mixture of (frequently [[rancid]]) fish parts and blood, dumped into the water to attract [[predator]] fish, such as [[sharks]].

===Verb===
{{en-verb|chum|m|ed}}
#{{cattag|fishing}} To cast '''chum''' into the water to attract fish.
#*'''1996''' Frank Sargeant, ''The Reef Fishing Book: A Complete Anglers Guide'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0936513233&id=9ZyJLLmrRYMC&pg=PA78&lpg=PA78&dq=chummed+%2Bcut&sig=bXKQ_8aR776qpzT-2BOIjkfS1mI]
#*:Small live baitfish are effective, and they will take bits of fresh cut fish when '''chummed''' strongly.

----
==French==

===Noun===
'''chum''', {{m}}
''(slang, mostly used in Quebec)''
#  [[boyfriend]]
#  [[chum]]

[[Category:fr:Slang]] [[Category:Quebec]]

[[fr:chum]]
[[vi:chum]]
[[zh:chum]]