=={{en}}==
===Etymology===
Spanish ''[[cincha]]'', a belt or girth

===Noun===
'''cinch''' (''plural'' '''cinches''')

#A simple saddle girth used in [[Mexico]].
#(''colloquial'') Something that is very easy to do.
#: ''No problem ... it's a cinch.''
#(''colloquial'') a firm hold

====Synonyms====
*(''something that is very easy to do''): [[piece of cake]], [[piece of piss]] (''coarse slang''), [[walkover]]

====Quotations====
'''saddle girth'''
* He found Andy morosely replacing some broken strands in his '''cinch''', and he went straight at the mooted
question. &mdash; B. M. Bower, ''The Flying U's Last Stand''

'''easy thing'''
* "We thought we had a '''cinch''' on getting out by way of this cord and so we followed that. &mdash; Major Archibald Lee Fletcher, ''Boy Scounts in the Coal Caverns'' 

'''firm hold'''
* You've got the '''cinch''' on him.  You could send him to quod, and I'd send him there as quick as lightning.  I'd hang him, if I could, for what he done to Lil Sarnia. &mdash; Gilbert Parker, ''The World For Sale,''

'''?????'''
*'''1903''': "Up to this time Wind-river had enjoyed a '''cinch''' on the mournful act.  He'd had a girl sometime durin' the Mexican war, and she'd borrowed Smith's roll and skipped with another man.  So, if we crowded Smithy too hard in debate, he used to slip behind that girl and say, 'Oh, well!  You fellers will know better when you've had more experience," although we might have been talkin' about what's best for frost-bite at the time. &mdash; Henry Wallace Phillips. ''Mr. Scraggs'' 1903



* He frivols through the livelong day,/   He knows not Poverty her pinch. / His lot seems light, his heart seems gay, / He has a '''cinch'''. &mdash; Franklin P. Adams, from 'The Rich Man' in ''Tobogganing On Parnassus''

====Translations====

'''saddle girth'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''something that is very easy to do'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''firm hold'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}



===Verb===
# to bring to certain conclusion

====Quotations====
*'''1911''': "You mean----" "That I intend to '''cinch''' that government business." &mdash; Margaret Burnham, ''The Girl Aviators' Sky Cruise,'' 1911 



====Translations====

'''to conclude'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}