==English==
===Noun===
#a [[spice]] from the dried aromatic bark of the cinnamon tree, either rolled into strips or ground into a powder.
#a tropical Asian tree with an aromatic bark.
#(colour) a [[yellow]]ish-[[brown]] [[color|colour]], the color of cinnamon.
#:<table><tr><td>cinnamon colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#8A563A" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>

====Translations====

'''spice'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Breton]]: [[kanell]] ''m''
*[[Czech]]:  skořice  ''f'' 
*[[Dutch]]: [[kaneel]] ''m'' 
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[シナモン]] (shinamon), [[肉桂]] (にっき, nikki),(にっけい, nikkei)
*[[Vietnamese]]: [[quế]] 
|}
|}

'''tree'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Breton]]: [[gwez-kanell]] ''collective noun''
*[[Czech]]:  skořicovník  ''m'' 
*[[Dutch]]: [[kaneelboom]] ''m'' 
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[ニッケイ]] (にっけい, nikkei)
*[[Vietnamese]]: [[cây quế]] 
|}
|}

'''colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Dutch]]: [[kaneelkleur]] ''f'' 
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[肉桂色]] (にっけいしょく, nikkeishoku)
*[[Vietnamese]]: [[mầu quế]] 
|}
|}

====Translations to be categorized====
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers. The numbering is unreliable.


*Chinese: [[rou4gui4]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[kaneli]]
*[[French]]: [[cannelle]] ''f''
*[[German]]: [[Zimt]] ''m''
*[[Greek]]: [[kanella]]
*[[Norwegian]]: [[kanel]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[canela]]
*[[Romanian]]: [[scorţişoară]] ''f''
*[[Russian]]: [[корица]]
*[[Slovak]]:  škorica  ''f''
*[[Slovene]]: [[cimet]] ''m''
*[[Spanish]]: [[canela]] s. ''f''; adj. invar. 


===Adjective===
#containing cinnamon, or having a cinnamon taste.
#(colour) of a yellowish-brown colour.

====Translations====

'''flavour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Dutch]]: [[kaneelachtig]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[シナモン味]]の (shinamonaji no)
|}
|}

'''colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Dutch]]:[[kaneelkleurig]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[肉桂色]]の (にっけいしょくの, nikkeishoku no)
*[[Vietnamese]]: [[mầu quế]]
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[cinnamic acid]]
*[[cinnamon bear]]
*[[cinnamon fern]]
*[[cinnamon stone]]

===Related terms===
*[[essonite]]
*[[hessonite]]
*[[red-hot]]

===See also===
[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:English colors]]