==English==

===Hyphenation===
'''ci·pher'''

===Pronunciation===
'sI-f&r
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪfə(r)|-aɪfə(r)]]

===Etymology===
14th century. Via Old French ''cif(f)re''  from, ultimately, Arabic ''ṣifr'', zero, source of English zero.
 
===Noun===
'''cipher''' or '''cypher''' 
# A method of transforming a text in order to conceal its meaning. <!-- Taken from http://people.cornell.edu/pages/heb4/ciphers.html Do we have permission? -->
#: ''The message was written in a simple cipher.  Anyone could figure it out.''
# Ciphertext; a message concealed via a cipher.
#: ''The message is clearly a cipher, but I can't figure it out.''
# a numeric character
# A design of interlacing initials: a decorative design consisting of a set of interlaced initials <!-- Taken from http://www.archivists.org/glossary/term_details.asp?DefinitionKey=181 Do we have permission?  -->
# (''music'') A fault in an organ valve which causes a pipe to sound continuously without the key having been pressed.
# (''dated'') Someone or something of no importance.
#: ''You are just a cipher to me.''
# A hip-hop jam session [http://www.rapdict.org/Cipher]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[Geheimschrift]] {{f} (1, 2), [[Ziffer]] {{f}} (3)
*Hungarian: [[jelentéktelen]] (5), [[nulla]] (5)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive Verb===
# (''regional and/or dated'') To calculate.
#: ''I never learned much more than how to read and cipher.''

===Related terms===
*[[ciphertext]]
*[[cypherpunk]]
*[[decipher]]
*[[encipher]]
*[[zero]]

[[ar:cipher]]
[[et:cipher]]
[[fr:cipher]]
[[gl:cipher]]
[[io:cipher]]
[[pl:cipher]]
[[sv:cipher]]
[[vi:cipher]]
[[zh:cipher]]