==English==
===Noun===
'''circuit''' (''plural'' circuits)
#The [[act]] of [[moving]] or [[revolving]] around, or as in a [[circle]] or [[orbit]]; a [[revolution]]; as, the [[periodical]] circuit of the [[earth]] around the [[sun]].
#The [[circumference]] of, or [[distance]] around, any space; the [[measure]] of a [[line]] around an [[area]].
#:''The circuit or [[compass]] of Ireland is 1,800 miles.'' J. Stow.
#That which [[encircle]]s anything, as a [[ring]] or [[crown]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1590''': And this [[fell]] [[tempest]] [[shall]] not [[cease]] to [[rage]] Until the [[golden]] [[circuit]] on my [[head]], Like to the [[glorious]] [[sun]]'s [[transparent]] [[beams]], Do [[calm]] the [[fury ]] of this mad-bred [[flaw]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry VI'', Part II, Act III, Scene I, line 351.
#The [[space]] [[enclose]]d within a [[circle]], or within [[limit]]s.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1592''': "Fondling," she [[saith]], "since I have [[ehm|hemm'd]] [[thee]] here [[Within]] the [[circuit]] of this [[ivory]] [[pale]], I'll be a [[park]], and [[thou]] [[shalt]] be my [[deer]]: [[Feed]] where thou [[wilt]], on [[mountain]], or in [[dale]]; [[Graze]] on my [[lips]]; and if those [[hill]]s be [[dry]], [[Stray]] [[lower]], where the [[pleasant]] [[fountain]]s [[lie]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Venus and Adonis'', Stanza 39, line 229.
<!-- You've gotta love Shakespeare. :-) -->
#:*''A circuit wide inclosed with goodliest trees.'' Milton.
#A [[regular]] or [[appoint]]ed [[journey]]ing from place to place in the [[exercise]] of one's [[calling]], as of a [[judge]], or a [[preacher]].
#(''Law'') A certain [[division]] of a [[state]] or [[country]], [[establish]]ed by [[law]] for a judge or judges to [[visit]], for the [[administration]] of [[justice]].
#(''Methodist Church'') A [[district]] in which an [[itinerant]] preacher [[labor]]s.
#(''Obsolete'') [[Circumlocution]].
#:''Thou hast used no circuit of words.'' --Huloet.

<!-- The deleted text is fomr Webster's 1913 if anyone wants it -->

====Related terms====
*[[circuitous]]
*[[circuit board]]
*[[circuit breaker]]
*[[circuit court]]
*[[Galvanic circuit]]
*[[integrated circuit]]
*[[printed circuit]]
*[[short circuit]]
*[[Voltaic circuit]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''to circuit'''
#(''Obsolete'') To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate. 
===Transitive verb===
'''to cirucuit'''
# (''Obsolete'') To travel around.
#: ''Having circuited the air.'' --T. Warton.