<b>Civilization</b> (n.) The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; national culture; refinement.<br>
<b>Civilization</b> (n.) Rendering a criminal process civil.
</br>- from 1913 Webster - Public Domain civilization, with the "z" replaced by "s" for Anglo preference.

Primarily British Variant: civilisation

Common usage would suggest two associated but variant meanings;

1. A stage or system of social, political or technical development of a large scale order encompassing several or many [[community|communities]], often on the [[nation]] or [[people]] scale. <i>(ancient civilizations; western civilization; the Aztec civilization.) cf [[culture]]</i>.

2. Collectively, those people of the world considered to have a high standard of behavior and / or a high level of development. Commonly subjectively used by people of one civilization to exclusively refer to their civilization, or their sub-group, or a few associated civilizations, implying all others, in time or geography or status, as something less than [[civilize|civilized]], as [[savage|savages]] or [[barbarian|barbarians]]. <i>cf [[refinement]], [[elitism]], [[civilized society]]</i>

3. The act of becoming or making civilized.

=== Further reading ===
*[[en:civilization|Wikipedia: civilization]]
*Wiktionary: [[civilize]]
=== Historical Usage ===
<b>Webster's 1828 Dictionary</b><br>1. The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; the state of being refined in manners, from the grossness of savage life and improved in arts and learning.<br>2. The act of rendering a criminal process civil.
----
Someone please "Wiktionarify" this.