==English==
===Etymology===
From {{F.}} [[clandestin]], derived from Latin [[clandestinus|clandestīnus]] "secret, concealed"

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/klænˈdɛstɪn/}}
*{{SAMPA|/kl{n"dEstIn/}}
*{{audio|en-us-clandestine.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛstɪn|-ɛstɪn]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

#Done or [[kept]] in [[secret]], sometimes to [[conceal]] an [[illicit]] or improper purpose.

====Quotations====
;done in secret
{{timeline|
1700s=1793|
1800s=1818 1878|
1900s=1912 1922 1924}}
*'''1793''' — [[w:Charlotte Turner Smith|Charlotte Smith]], ''[[s:The_Old_Manor_House|The Old Manor House]] v 3, ch I''
*: Monimia, who while she yielded to his earnest entreaties had always felt, from the natural rectitude of her understanding, the impropriety of their '''clandestine''' correspondence, would, he feared, be more than ever sensible of her indiscretion, when she found that a servant was entrusted with it...
*'''1818''' — [[w:Jane Austen|Jane Austen]], ''[[s:Northanger Abbey|Northanger Abbey]] ch 31''
*:Whether the torments of absence were softened by a '''clandestine''' correspondence, let us not inquire. Mr. and Mrs. Morland never did.
*'''1878''' — [[w:Thomas Hardy|Thomas Hardy]], ''[[s:The Return of the Native|The Return of the Native]] ch 11''
*:Wildeve's '''clandestine''' plan with her was to take a little gravel in his hand and hold it to the crevice at the top of the window shutter, which was on the outside, so that it should fall with a gentle rustle, resembling that of a mouse, between shutter and glass.
*'''1912''' — [[w:G. K. Chesterton|G. K. Chesterton]], ''[[s:Manalive|Manalive]] ch IX''
*:Lady Bullingdon could not, of course, countenance such an arrangement for a moment, and the two unhappy persons escaped for a '''clandestine''' marriage.
*'''1922''' — [[w:H. P. Lovecraft|H. P. Lovecraft]], ''[[s:Herbert West: Reanimator|Herbert West: Reanimator]]''
*:Bodies were always a nuisance -- even the small guinea-pig bodies from the slight '''clandestine''' experiments in West’s room at the boarding-house.
*'''1924''' — [[w:Herman Melville|Herman Melville]], ''[[s:Billy Budd|Billy Budd]] ch 13''
*:Probably, the Master-at-arms' '''clandestine''' persecution of Billy was started to try the temper of the man...
*'''2003''' — [[w:Trivium (band)|Trivium]], ''[[w:Ember To Inferno|Ember To Inferno]] - Track 4: Fugue:''
*:As I stand at the edge of existence; nameless shores of infinity. Perpetual unbirth unraveling distance, '''clandestine''' truths unveiled.

====Synonyms====
* (''done in secret''): [[covert]], [[furtive]], [[hush-hush]], [[secret]], [[secretive]], [[undercover]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[秘密的,暗中的]]
*French: [[clandestin]]
*German: [[klammheimlich]], [[heimlich]], [[geheim]], obs. [[klandestin]]
*Japanese: [[秘密の]]（ひみつの, himitsu no）
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: {{trad|ku|nepenî}}, {{trad|ku|nehênî}}, {{trad|ku|dizîkî}}
*Latin: [[clandestinus|clandestīnus]]
*Portuguese: [[clandestino]]
*Spanish: [[clandestino]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[clandestinely]]

[[it:clandestine]]
[[vi:clandestine]]
[[zh:clandestine]]