==English==
===Etymology===
''[[classical]]'' + ''[[music]]''

===Noun phrase===
'''classical music'''
# {{music}} Music of the [[classical]] period; the music of [[w:Mozart|Mozart]], [[w:Haydn|Haydn]], etc; the musical period before the [[romantic]].
#(''informally'') the more [[serious]] forms of [[European]] and [[American]] music, as opposed to [[folk music]], [[jazz]] or the many forms of [[popular music]]

===See also===
*[[early music]]
*[[romantic music]]
*[[world music]]

==Indian==
The origins of Indian classical music, the classical music of [[India]], can be found from the oldest of scriptures, part of the [[Hindu]] tradition, the Vedas. Samaveda, one of the four Vedas, describes [[music]] at length. 

The two main streams of Indian classical music are:
* Hindustani music, from North India, and 
*Carnatic music ( Karnataka Sangeeth), from South India.


The prime themes of Hindustani music are [[Rasleela]] (Hindu [[devotional]]s) of [[Krishna]] and Nature in all its splendour. Pt. [[Mallikarjun Mansur]], [[Bhimsen Joshi]], [[Ravi Shankar (musician)|Ravi Shankar]], [[Lalmani Misra]], [[Hariprasad Chaurasia]] and [[Zakir Hussain (musician)|Zakir Hussain]], Pandit [[Shivkumar Sharma]], [[Ali Akbar Khan]], [[Imrat Khan]], [[Kishori Amonkar]], [[Satyasheel Deshpande]], [[Vilayat Khan]] are the arts' most popular living performers. Carnatic music is similar to Hindustani music in that it is mostly improvised, but it is much more influenced by theory and has stricter rules. It is also less influenced by Persian music. It emphasizes the expertise of the voice rather than of the instruments. Primary themes include [[Devi]] worship, [[Rama]] worship, descriptions of temples and patriotic songs. Among the most popular living performers are [[Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna]], [[T V Sankaranarayanan]], [[Madurai T N Seshagopalan]] and [[Yesudas]]. [[M. S. Subbulakshmi]] one of the greatest carnatic vocalists ever, died about a year ago. M L Vasanthakumari, G N Balasubramaniam, Dr.S Ramanathan ,Chemabai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar ,Vidwan. Gopala Pillai are famous musical legends who lived in the last century.

Indian classical music is [[Monophony|monophonic]] and based around a single [[melody]] line. The performance of a composition, based melodically on one particular [[raga]] and [[rhythm]]ically on one [[tala (music)|tala]], begins with the performers coming out in a ritualized order: [[drone (music)|drone]] instruments, then the [[soloist]], then [[Accompaniment|accompanists]] and [[percussionist]]s.  The musicians begin by [[tuning]] their instruments; this process often blends imperceptibly into the beginning of the music.

[[Indian musical instruments]] used in classical music include [[veena]], [[mridangam]], [[tabla]], [[kanjira]], [[tambura]], [[flute]], [[sitar]], [[gottuvadyam]], [[violin]], and [[sarangi]]. The fundmental authoritative book on the subject "Bharatiya Sangeet Vadya" was based on years of research carried out by Dr. [[Lalmani Misra]].

Players of the [[tabla]], a type of [[drum]], begin by tapping the edges with a hammer to make sure it is in tune with the soloist.  Another common instrument is the [[string instrument|stringed]] [[tambura]] (sometimes also called tanpura), which is played at a steady tone (a drone) throughout the raga.  This task traditionally falls to a student of the soloist, a task which might seem monotonous but is, in fact, an honour and a rare opportunity for the student who gets it.

The raga begins with the melody being developed gradually, and proper rendering of any raga will take more than half an hour. The beginning of the raga is called an [[alap]] in Hindustani music and an [[alapana]] in Carnatic music. Many aficionados consider the alap their favourite part, but the alap is often inaccessible to others.

In Hindustani music, once the raga is established, the ornamentation around the [[musical mode|mode]] begins to become rhythmical, gradually speeding up.  This section is called the [[jor]].  After the jor climaxes, everything stops and the audiences applaud.  Finally, the percussionist begins to play, interacting with the soloist, eventually reaching the spontaneous and competitive [[jhala]] section.

Carnatic raga elaborations are generally much faster in tempo and shorter.  The opening piece is called a [[varnam]], and is a warm-up for the musicians.  A devotion and a request for a blessing follows, then a series of interchanges between [[ragam]]s (unmetered melody) and [[thaalam]]s (the ornamentation, equivalent to the ''jor'').  This is intermixed with [[hymn]]s called [[krithi]]s.  This is followed by the [[pallavi]] or theme from the raga.