==English==

{{rank|greatly|floor|example|983|class|century|sorry|share}}

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːs|-ɑːs]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# A [[group]], [[collection]], [[category]] or [[set]] sharing [[characteristic]]s or [[attribute]]s
#: ''The new Ford Fiesta is set to be best in the 'small family' '''class'''.''
#::Often used to imply membership of a large class.
#::: ''This word has a whole '''class''' of metaphoric extensions.''
# A social grouping, based on [[job]], [[wealth]], etc. In Britain, society is commonly split into three main classes; [[upper class]], [[middle class]] and [[working class]].
# ''(Used without an article)'' The division of society into classes.
#: ''Jane Austen's works deal with '''class''' in 18th-century England.''
# ''(Used without an article)'' Admirable behavior; elegance.
#: ''Apologizing for losing your temper, even though you were badly provoked, showed real '''class'''.''
# ''(Used with or without an article.)'' A group of [[student]]s in a regularly scheduled meeting with a teacher.
#: ''The '''class''' was noisy, but the teacher was able to get their attention with a story.''
# A series of classes covering a single subject.
#: ''I took the cooking '''class''' for enjoyment, but I also learned a lot.''
# A group of students who commenced or completed their education during a particular year. A [[school class]].
#: ''The '''class''' of 1982 was particularly noteworthy.''
# A category of seats in an airplane, train or other means of mass transportation.
#: ''I used to fly business '''class''', but now my company can only afford economy.''
# {{taxonomy}} The [[classification]] below [[Phylum]] and above [[Order]].
#: ''Magnolias belong to '''class''' Magnoliopsida.''
# {{computing}} A set of [[object]]s possibly differing in [[state]] but not [[behavior]].
# {{math}} A collection of [[set]]s definable by a shared property.
#: ''The '''class''' of all sets is not a set.''

====Translations====
*Catalan: [[classe]] {{f}} (1,2,3,4,5,7,8,9,10) [[curs]] {{m}}(6)
*Finnish: [[luokka]] (1-3,5,7-9), [[tyyli]] (4)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[classe]]
*Indonesian: [[kelas]]
*Italian: [[ceto]] {{m}} (1,2,3)
*Polish: [[klasa]] {{f}} (1-5,7,8,10), [[kurs]] (6)
*Portuguese: [[classe]]
*Romanian: [[clasă]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[klass]] (1-5,8,9), [[kurs]] (6), [[årskurs]] (7), [[avgångsklass]] (7)

=== Transitive Verb ===
'''to class'''

# To assign to a class.
#: ''I would '''class''' this with most of the other mediocre works of the period.''

====Translations====
*Swedish: [[klassificera]]

=== Related terms ===

*[[class act]]
*[[class action]]
*[[class clown]]
*[[classify]]
*[[class picture]]
*[[classless]]
*[[classroom]]
*[[class up]]
*[[class war]]
*[[classy]]
*[[coach class]]
*[[economy class]]
*[[first class]]
*[[lower class]]
*[[middle class]]
*[[school class]]
*[[second class]]
*[[steerage class]]
*[[upper class]]
*[[working class]]

[[Category:Semantics]]

[[fr:class]]
[[gl:class]]
[[ko:class]]
[[io:class]]
[[it:class]]
[[hu:class]]
[[ja:class]]
[[fi:class]]
[[ta:class]]
[[vi:class]]
[[zh:class]]