{{wikipedia}}

==English==

===Etymology 1===
From the strong Old English verb ''[[clēofan]]'' (to split, to separate), from Proto-Germanic *''[[kleubanan]]'', from Proto-Indo-European root *''[[gleubh-]]'' (to cut, to slice).

====Verb====
{{en-verb|cleaves|cleaving|'''[[cleft]]''',''' [[clove]]''', ''or'' '''[[cleaved]]'''|'''[[cleft]]''',''' [[cloven]]''', ''or'' '''[[cleaved]]'''}}

# {{transitive}} To [[split]] or [[sever]] something or as if with a sharp instrument.
# {{cattag|transitive|mineralogy}} To break a single [[crystal]] (such as a [[gemstone]] or [[semiconductor]] [[wafer]]) along one of its more [[symmetrical]] [[crystallographic]] [[plane]]s (often by [[impact]]), forming [[facet]]s on the resulting pieces.
# {{transitive}} To make or accomplish by or as if by cutting: cleave a path through the ice.
# {{transitive}} To pierce or penetrate.
#: ''The wings '''cleaved''' the foggy air.''
# {{cattag|transitive|chemistry}} To split (a complex molecule) into simpler molecules.
# {{cattag|intransitive|mineralogy}} Of a crystal, to split along a natural plane of division.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{technology}} Flat, smooth [[surface]] produced by cleavage, or any similar surface produced by similar techniques, as in [[glass]].

=====Related terms=====
*[[cleavage]]
*[[cleft]]

===Etymology 2===
From Old English ''[[cleofian]]'', from West Germanic ''*[[klibajanan]]'', from Proto-Indo-European root ''*[[gloi-]]'' (to stick).

====Verb====
{{en-verb|cleav|ing}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[cling]], [[adhere]] or [[stick]] [[fast]] to something; used with [[to]] or [[unto]].
# {{intransitive}} To be faithful.
#: ''To cleave to one’s principles.''

=====Quotations=====
*{{RQ:Authorized Version}}, Genesis, 2:24
*: Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall '''cleave''' unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[ang:cleave]]
[[io:cleave]]
[[it:cleave]]
[[hu:cleave]]
[[vi:cleave]]
[[uk:cleave]]
[[zh:cleave]]