{{rfc}}
==English==
===Etymology===
Imitative of the "click" sound; first recorded in the 1500s.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/'klɪk/}}
*{{AHD|/klĭk/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪk|-ɪk]]
* {{audio|en-uk-click.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

===Noun===
'''click''' (''plural:'' '''[[clicks]]''')

#A brief, sharp, not particularly loud, relatively [[high-pitched]] sound produced by the impact something small and hard against something hard, such as by the operation of a [[switch]], a [[lock]] or a [[latch]], or a finger pressed against the thumb and then released to strike the hand.
#:''I turned the key, the lock gave a click and the door opened.''
#:''a click of one’s fingers''
#(''phonetics'') An [[ingressive]] sound made by [[coarticulate|coarticulating]] a [[velar]] or [[uvular]] [[closure]] with another closure.
#Sound made by a [[dolphin]]
#The act of operating a switch, etc., so that it clicks.
#The act of pressing a button on a computer [[mouse]].
#(''slang'') A [[kilometre]]. The term is commonly used in American war films; for example, ''the target is 5 clicks north''.
#The term used to show approval, acceptance, or general agreement.

===Transitive verb===
'''to click''' (clicking, clicked)

#To operate (a switch, etc) so that it makes a click.
#To press and release (a button on a computer mouse).
##To select a software item using, usually, but not always, the pressing of a mouse button.
#To cause to make a click.

===Intransitive verb===
'''to click''' (clicking, clicked)

#To emit a click.
#:''He bent his fingers back until the joints clicked.''
#To click the left button of a computer mouse while pointing.
#:''Click here to go to the next page.''
#To make sense suddenly.<!--improve this, please-->
#:''Then it clicked - I had been going the wrong way all that time.''
#To get on well at a first meeting.
#:''When we met at the party, we just clicked and we’ve been best friends ever since.''

===Interjection===
'''click!'''

#The sound of a click.
#:''Click! The door opened.''

===Translations===
:'''''noun'''''

'''sharp sound'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napsahdus]], [[naksahdus]]
*French: [[déclic]] {{m}}, [[clic]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[щёлканье]] (ščólkan’je) {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''in phonetics'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''act of operating a switch, etc., so that it clicks'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napsautus]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[щёлканье]] (ščólkan’je) {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''act of pressing a button on a computer mouse'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napsautus]]
*German: [[Klick]] {{m}}, [[Mausklick]] {{m}}
*Greek, Modern: [[κλικ]] (klik)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


:'''''transitive verb'''''
'''operate so as to make click'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[naksauttaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''press and release (button on a mouse)'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napsauttaa]], [[näpäyttää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''cause to make a click'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[naksauttaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

:'''''intransitive verb'''''
'''emit a click'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napsahtaa]], [[naksahtaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''click the left button of a mouse'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napsauttaa]], [[näpäyttää]]
*French: [[cliquer]] ('''on''': sur)
*German: [[klicken]], ('''click on''': [[anklicken]])
*Italian: [[cliccare]] ('''on''': su)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''make sense suddenly'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''get on well at a first meeting'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


:'''''interjection'''''
'''sound of a click'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


===Derived terms===
*[[click one's fingers]]
*[[double-click]]<!--intransitive: click twice with the left button of a computer mouse-->
*[[point-and-click]]<!--adjective, as in "point-and-click adventure game"-->
*[[right-click]]<!--intransitive: click with the right button of a computer mouse-->

===See also===
*[[ejective]]
*[[tsk]], [[tsk tsk]]

[[Category:Slang]]
[[Category:Animal sounds]]
[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]

[[ar:click]]
[[fr:click]]
[[io:click]]
[[pl:click]]
[[ru:click]]
[[vi:click]]
[[zh:click]]