==English== 
===Alternative forms===
* [[clip clop]]

===Etymology===
Onomatopoeia for two [[footfall]]s in succession.

===Noun===
'''clip-clop''' ''(plural:'' '''clip-clops''')
# The sound of shoed foot&ndash; or hoof-steps on hard ground. 

===Verb===
'''clip-clop'''
# To make a clip-clop noise.

===Usage note===
Used particularly of horses.

Often repeated one or more times in succession to indicate multiple or continued steps.

===Quotations=== 
{{timeline|
1900s=1925<br>1984<br>1999|
2000s=2001<br>2002<br>2003}}
----
* '''1925, [1996]''' [[w:Zane Grey|Zane Grey]], ''The Thundering Herd'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0803270658&id=YAuOtMgfmC0C&pg=PA326&lpg=PA326&dq=clip-clop&sig=cFbOc2Qy-2KILuPFMS954weozNM]
*: The wagon creaked, swayed, moved on to strange accompaniment—'''''clip-clop''', '''clip-clop''', '''clip-clop'''.'' The horses were trotting on hard road.
* '''1984,''' Anthony C. Yu, tr. 吴承恩, ''西游记'' ([[w:Wu Cheng'en|Wu Cheng'en]], ''[[w:Journey to the West|Journey to the West]]'') [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0226971538&id=1q2jr5jttaUC&pg=PA39&lpg=PA39&dq=%22clip-clops%22&sig=AK8LZaIEHgK0n1Bxa7jLM3YK_Xo]
*: With loud '''clip-clops''', several middle-aged women ran out from within to stare at the T’ang monk, grinning stupidly all the time.
* '''1999,''' Mary Downing Hahn, ''Anna All Year Round'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0395869757&id=LAwhSF46NY0C&pg=PA1&lpg=PA1&dq=%22clip-clops%22&sig=0rsYOgavq_NupYPODpsBoSpGat0]
*: At the some moment, a horse '''clip-clops''' past, hauling a wagon.
* '''2001,''' Dave Zorn, ''Dinky Dau: Love, War, and the Corps'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN1401013392&id=zG3uaAJB9IkC&pg=PA67&lpg=PA67&dq=clip-clop&sig=al-DmfR_pWxK-ZpSSHwy9qhZjLU]
*: Suddenly I heard the familiar “'''clip-clop''', '''clip-clop'''” of shower shoes coming up the path behind me—and a rapid pace it was.
* '''2002,''' D J Vallone, ''For the Love of Freedom'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0595226183&id=xKV1VCsAwZIC&pg=PA92&lpg=PA92&dq=%22clip-clops%22&sig=-LkO8mWX7qKZGvv2vcIXOHpIqYM]
*: One of several pairs of mounted police in flak jackets '''''clip-clops''''' past, patrolling the perimeter.
* '''2003,''' Ann Redisch Stampler, ''Something for Nothing'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0618159827&id=F6U_tU8-FFkC&pg=PA7&lpg=PA7&dq=clip-clop&sig=bhYqdn7LQFMg6a0BuBGFIgpnP2E]
*: All night long, Dog heard the '''clip-clop''' of horses hauling the wagons to market.

[[vi:clip-clop]]