==English==
{{wikipedia}}
=== Etymology ===
From Greek [[κλειτορις]], a diminutive of uncertain origin, probably from [[κλειειν]] ‘to sheathe, shut’, in reference to its being covered by the labia minora.

The related noun form kleis has a second meaning of "a key, a latch or hook (to close a door)." Wooden pegs were the original keys; a connection also revealed in L. clovis "nail" and claudere "to shut" (see close (v.)). Some medical sources give a supposed Gk. verb kleitoriazein "to touch or titillate lasciviously, to tickle," lit. "to be inclined (toward pleasure)" (cf. Ger. slang der Kitzler "clitoris," lit. "the tickler"), related to Gk. kleitys, a variant of klitys "side of a hill," related to klinein "to slope," from the same root as climax. But many sources take kleitoris literally as Gk. "little hill." The It. anatomist [[w:Mateo Renaldo Colombo|Mateo Renaldo Colombo]] (1516-1559), professor at Padua, claimed to have discovered it (De re anatomica, 1559, p. 243). He called it amor Veneris, vel dulcedo "the love or sweetness of Venus."  Slang abbreviation [[clit]] first attested 1960s.

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /'klɪtərɪs/

===Noun===
{{en-noun2|'''clitoris'''|'''[[clitorises]]''' or '''[[clitorides]]'''}}
# {{anatomy}} A small [[elongate]]d [[erectile]] [[organ]] at the [[anterior]] part of the [[vulva]] in female mammals, [[homologous]] with the [[penis]].

====Synonyms====
:''See [[WikiSaurus:clitoris]].''
*[[clit]]
*[[button]]

====Translation====
{{top}}
*Dutch: clitoris {{m}}, [[kittelaar]] {{m}}
*French: clitoris {{m}}
*Hebrew: [[דגדגן]] (dagdegan)
*German: [[Klitoris]] {{f}}, [[Kitzler]] {{m}}
*Italian: clitoride ''m or f''
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[クリトリス]], [[陰核]] (kuritorisu)
*Norwegian: [[klitoris]] {{m}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[چوچوله]]}} (chuchuleh)
*Polish: [[łechtaczka]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
*[[clit]]
*[[clitoral]]
*[[clitoral hood]]

[[Category:English irregular plurals]]
[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[fr:clitoris]]
[[io:clitoris]]
[[it:clitoris]]
[[nl:clitoris]]