==English==
===Etymology===
The term '''''[[clone]]''''' is derived from ''kl&#333;n'', the [[Wikipedia:Greek language|Greek]] word for "twig".
In [[Wikipedia:horticulture|horticulture]], the spelling ''clon'' was used until the twentieth century.
The final ''e'' came into use to indicate the vowel is a "long o" instead of a "short o";
see the references below on this point.
Since the term entered the popular lexicon in a more general context,
the spelling ''clone'' has been used exclusively. 

=== Noun ===
#A living organism which is [[genetically]] identical with another
#''Star Wars.'' A clone trooper.
#:''Killed not by '''clones''', this Padawan, by a lightsaber, he was.'' —[[w:Yoda|Yoda]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[klooni]], [[kopio]]
*Greek: [[κλώνος]] [ˈklo̞.no̞s] (means "bough" too) ''m''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[klon]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

=== Verb ===
#To create a clone

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kloonata]]
*Greek: [[κλωνοποιώ]] [klo̞.no̞.pi.ˈo̞] (active voice), [[κλωνοποιούμαι]] [klo̞.no̞.pi.ˈu.me̞] (passive voice)
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[klona]]
{{bottom}}

=== References ===

* C.L. Pollard. "'Clon' versus 'clone'". ''Science'' (new series) 22:469, 1905.
* C.L. Pollard. "On the spelling of 'clon'". ''Science'' (new series) 22:87-88, 1905.
* W.T. Stearn. "The use of the term 'clone'". ''Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society'' 74:41-47, 1949.

----

==Italian==
===Noun===
'''clone''' ''m''

# clone

===Related terms===
*[[clonare]]
*[[clonato]]

[[it:clone]]
[[zh:clone]]