==English==

===Etymology 1===
Middle English ''[[cogge]]'' or ''[[kogge]]'' (14th century), Old French ''[[cogue]]'' or ''[[coque]]'', Middle Low German ''[[kogge]]'', Middle Dutch ''[[cogghe]]'', Middle High German ''[[kocke]]'', German ''[[kock]]'' (15th century).

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒɡ|-ɒɡ]]

====Noun====
'''cog''' (''plural:'' '''cogs''')
# {{obsolete}} a [[ship]] of [[burden]], or [[war]] with a [[round]], [[bulky]] [[hull]]

===Etymology 2===
Middle English ''[[cogge]]''; confer Swedish ''[[kugge]]'' and Norwegian ''[[kug]]'' of same sense. Nonetheless, the exact relation between the English and the Scandinavian words can't be determined. The meaning of "cog" in carpentry derives from association with a tooth on a cogwheel.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
#A [[tooth]] on a [[gear]]
#A [[gear]]; a [[cogwheel]]
#A [[unimportant]] individual in a greater system.
#*'''1976,''' Norman Denny (English translation), [[w:Victor Hugo|Victor Hugo]] (original French), ''[[w:Les Misérables|Les Misérables]]''
#*:‘There are twenty-five of us, but they don’t reckon I’m worth anything. I’m just a '''cog''' in the machine.’
#*'''1988,''' [[w:David Mamet|David Mamet]], ''[[w:Speed-the-Plow|Speed-the-Plow]]''
#*:Your boss tells you “take initiative,” you best guess right—and you ''do'', then you get no credit. Day-in, ... smiling, smiling, just a '''cog'''.
#(''carpentry'') a [[projection]] or [[tenon]] at the end of a [[beam]] designed to fit into a matching opening of another piece of wood to form a [[joint]]

=====Translations=====
'''a tooth on a gear'''
{{top}}
* German: [[Zahn]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''a gear; a cogwheel'''
{{top}}
* German: [[Zahnrad]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''an unimportant individual'''
{{top}}
...
{{bottom}}

'''carpentry: a projection or tenon'''
{{top}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Uncertain origin. Both verb and noun appear first in 1532.

====Noun====
'''cog''' (''plural:'' '''cogs''')
# an act of cogging

====Verb====
'''to cog''' ('''cogs''', '''cogged''', '''cogging''')
#to [[cheat]] at [[dice]]
#to [[cheat]]; to [[play]] or [[gamble]] [[fraudulent]]ly

===Etymology 4===
====Forms====
#a spelling variant of the noun ''[[cogue]]''


[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]


<!--Please check this meaning and, if you can verify, insert it under the right etymology
# a small [[fishing]] [[boat]]-->

[[vi:cog]]
[[zh:cog]]