==English==
=== Etymology ===
From Latin "color" via Old French "coulour"; in American spelling the
'u' was dropped from ''colour'' to conform to the word's Latin origin. In the rest of the English speaking world the 'u' remains.

=== Pronunciation ===
*{{AHD|/kŭl'ə/ ''or'' /kŭl'ər/}}
*{{IPA|/ˈkʌlə/}}
*{{SAMPA|/"kVl@/}}

=== Alternative spelling ===
*[[color]] (US)

=== Noun ===
{{en-noun|colour|colours}}

#{{uncountable}} The spectral composition of visible light
#: ''Humans and birds can perceive colour''
#{{countable}} A particular set of visible spectral compositions, perceived or named as a class
#: ''Most languages have names for the colours black, white, red and green.''
#{{uncountable}} [[hue|Hue]] as opposed to [[achromatic]] colours (black, white and greys).
#: ''He referred to the white flag as one "drained of all colour".''
#{{uncountable}} Human skin tone, especially as an indicator of race or [[ethnicity]].
#: ''Colour has been a sensitive issue in many societies.''
# (''figuratively'') [[interest|Interest]], especially in a selective area; as, a bit of local colour.
#In plural '''colours''': A [[standard]] or [[banner]].
#: ''The loss of the Colour destroyed the regiment's morale.''

==== Related terms ====
* [[colourise]]
* [[colorize]]<!-- you might expect only ou and s go together but this is just as common! -->
* [[coloured]]
* [[colourful]]
* [[colourless]]
* [[colours]]
* [[true colours]]
:''See'' [[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

==== Translations ====
{{top}}
*Breton: [[liv]] ''m'' livioù ''pl''
*Catalan: [[color]] ''m'' [[:ca:color|(ca)]]
*Chinese: [[颜色]] (yán sè)
*Croatian: [[boja]]
*Danish: [[farve]]
*Dutch: [[kleur]]
*Esperanto, {{io}}: [[koloro]]
*Finnish: [[väri]]
*French: [[couleur]] ''f''
*Galician: [[color]] 
*German: [[Farbe]] ''f'' [[:de:Farbe|(de)]]
*Greek: [[χρώμα]] ''n'' (chroma)
*Guaraní: [[sa'y]]
*Hebrew: [[צבע]]
*Indonesian: [[warna]], [[rona]]
*Interlingua: color
*Italian: [[colore]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[色]] ([[いろ]], iro)
*Latin: [[color]] ''m''
*Norwegian: [[farge]]
*Persian: [[رنگ]] (rang)
*Polish: [[kolor]] ''m'', [[barwa]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[cor]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[culoare]] ''f''
*Russian: [[цвет]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[color]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[färg]]
*Volapük: [[köl]]
*Yiddish: [[פאַרבּ]]
{{bottom}}

====External links====
*[[w:color|Wikipedia article on colour]]

=== Verb ===
{{en-verb|colour|colours|coloured|colouring}}

#{{transitive}} To give something colour.
#: ''We could colour the walls red''
#{{intransitive}} To draw within the boundaries of a line drawing using coloured markers or crayons.
#: ''My son loves to colour.''
# Of a face: To become red through increased blood flow.
#{{transitive}} To affect without completely changing.
#: ''That interpretation certainly colours my perception of the book''
#{{colloquial}} To attribute a quality to.
#: ''Colour me confused''

====Synonyms====
*[[colour in]]

====Related terms====
*[[colour by numbers]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Amuzgo]]: [[kolô]]
*Breton: [[livañ]] (1)
*Catalan: [[acolorir]] (1)
*Chinese: [[填色]], [[上色]], [[著色]] (1)
*Danish: [[farve]] (1)
*Dutch: [[kleuren]] (1)
*Esperanto: [[kolorigi]] (1)
*Finnish: [[värjätä]] (1), [[värittää]] (2)
*French: [[colorer]], [[colorier]], [[teinter]] (1)
*Galician: [[colorar]] (1)
*German: [[färben]] (1)
*Greek: [[χρωματίζω]]
*Interlingua: [[colorar]] (1)
*Italian: [[colorare]]
{{mid}}
*Persian: [[رنگ كردن]] (rang kardan), [[رزیدن]] (razidan) 
*Polish: [[kolorować]], [[barwić]], [[zabarwiać]] (1)
*Portuguese: [[colorir]] (1)
*Romanian: a [[colora]] (1)
*Russian: [[красить]]
*Spanish: [[colorar]], [[colorear]] (1)
*Swedish: [[färgsätta]] (1), [[måla]] (2), [[färglägga]] (2), [[rodna]] (3)
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[io:Colour]]
[[it:colour]]
[[nl:colour]]
[[ja:colour]]
[[fi:colour]]
[[sv:colour]]