==English==
===Other spellings===
*[[Comcaac]]
===Etymology===
From Seri ''[[comcaac]]'', plural of ''[[cmiique]]'' "person; Seri".
===Noun===
'''Comcáac''' ''pl.''

# The [[Seri]]s, an indigenous group of [[Sonora]], [[Mexico]].
{{wikipedia2|Seri}}
====Synonyms====
*[[Seri]]
====Quotations====
*'''2000,''' Gary Nabhan, ''Interspecies relationships affecting endangered species recognized by O’odham and Comcáac cultures,'' in ''Ecological Applications,'' Vol. 10, No. 5
*:The '''Comcáac''' or “Seri,” as they are commonly called in Mexico, number fewer than 600 individuals residing in two permanent villages and several temporary fishing camps on the Sea of Cortez coast of Sonora, Mexico near Tiburón Island, which is alos part of their aboriginal territory.
*'''2003,''' Gary Nabhan, ''Singing the Turtles to Sea: The Comcáac (Seri) Art and Science of Reptiles''
*:Although they do not embrace an agricultural tradition per se, the '''Comcáac''' have likely been moving plants around for many decades.
===Adjective===
'''Comcáac'''

# [[Seri]]; of the Seris.
====Synonyms====
*[[Seri]]
====Quotations====
*'''2000,''' Jesse Ford & Dennis Martinez, ''Traditional Ecological Knowledge, Ecosystem Science, and Environmental Management,'' in ''Ecological Applications,'' Vol. 10, No. 5
*:Nabhan builds on this theme by discussing ecological interactions recognized by O’odham and '''Comcáac''' foragers of the Sonoran Desert, emphasizing the importance of local language as a carrier of such knowledge.
*'''2001,''' Lilian Friedberg, ''Mule Minus Forty Million Acres,'' in ''New German Critique,'' No. 84
*:As a recent (Marc 30, 2000) ''New York Times’'' report reveals, the abundance of the desert remains a present reality to contemporary members of the O’odham, '''Comcaac''' and Yoeme nations who recently made a 250-mile trek through the Sonoran desert along the same routes their ancestors traveled.
*'''2003,''' Gary Nabhan, ''Singing the Turtles to Sea: The Comcáac (Seri) Art and Science of Reptiles''
*:This stowaway hypothesis for gecko dispersion is supported by the fact that most '''Comcáac''' adults dread finding a gecko anywhere in their vicinity.
[[Category:English nouns]][[Category:English adjectives]]