'''Communitas''' a [[Latin]] [[noun]] referring either to an unstructured [[community]] in which [[person|people]] are equal, or to the very spirit of community. It also has special significance as a [[loanword]] in [[cultural anthropology]] and the [[social sciences]].

Communitas is an intense [[community]] [[spirit]], the feeling of great [[social]] [[equality]], [[solidarity]], and [[togetherness]]. Communitas is characteristic of people experiencing [[liminality]] together. This term is used to distinguish the [[modality]] of social [[relationship]] from an area of common living. There is more than one distinction between [[structure]] and communitas. The most familiar being the difference of [[secular]] and [[sacred]]. Every social position has something sacred about it. This sacred component is acquired during [[rites of passages]], through the changing of positions. Part of this sacredness is achieved through the transient humility learned in these phases, this allows people to reach a higher position. 

Communitas is an acute point of [[community]]. It takes [[community]] to the next level and allows the whole of the community to share a common experience, usually through a rite of passage. This brings everyone onto an equal level, even if you are higher in position, you have been lower and you know what that is. 

Communitas as a concept used by [[Victor Turner]] in his study of ritual has recently been criticised by anthropologists. See [[Eade]] & [[Sallnow]]'s 'Contesting the Sacred' (1991) 

Sources:

Turner, Victor. "Rituals and Communitas." Creative Resistance. 26 Nov. 2005 <http://citationmachine.net/>.

Eade & Sallnow, 'Contesting the Sacred' (1991)


==External Links==

*[http://www.wechange.org/creating_communitas Creating Communitas, a project at www.wechange.org], including two books by [http://www.wechange.org/user/10 Forbes Leslie]: [http://www.wechange.org/communal_sustainability Communal Sustainability] and [http://www.wechange.org/forming_tribalized_communities Forming Tribalized Communities].

[[Category:Latin phrases]][[Category:Community building]]


{{Vocab-stub}}