{{rfv}}

==English==
===Pronunciation===
* [[IPA]] /'kɒmjunɪzm/
===Etymology===
Calqued from German [[Kommunismus]] (from Marx and Engels's ''Manifesto of the German Communist Party''), in turn calqued from French [[communisme]], formed from ''[[commun]]'' ("common"), from Latin ''[[communis]]''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}
#A [[socialist]] society in which resources are held collectively, under the slogan "from each according to his or her ability, and to each according to his or her need", and in which the State is either abolished because it is harmful or withers away because it is no longer required.  Communism is the final aim of revolutionary socialist ideologies such as [[Marxism]] and [[anarchism]].
#A socialist philosophy advocating the form of society known as communism (see above)
#The ideology of parties that use the term "Communist" in their name, i.e. Leninists and Stalinists.
#The socio-economic system in countries ruled by regimes that use the term "Communist", i.e. Leninist and Stalinist governments running systems involving tight State control of industry and the populace.
#A classless, stateless, society in which its members have free access to all resources.
# {{US}} A state of affairs perceived as [[oppressive]], overly [[arbitrary]], or [[totalitarian]]. 
#*'''1953 (pub. 1997):''' Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy ed., ''Hinge of Generations-1953 Transcripts'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN091214825X&id=faq3Bng7IeYC&pg=RA1-PA24-IA44&lpg=RA1-PA24-IA44&dq=%22that%27s+communism%22&sig=euXrX5FOsAMFM3BcT3cmzgFmKb8]
#*:...he shouldn't...just...[say]..."I -- I am responsible for prosperity,"...that's '''Communism''', Sir, you see. 
#*'''1992:''' Sylvia Whitman, ''V Is for Victory: The American Home Front During World War II'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0822517272&id=NoieB4ELLAgC&pg=PA57&lpg=PA57&dq=%22that%27s+communism%22&sig=m5yurFCa3ukbwM0VW74RVK4DuD0]
#*:Although her elder daughter, Jane, complains, “that's '''Communism''',” Mrs. Hilton rents her own bedroom to a retired colonel.
#*'''1998:''' Joseph Martin Hernon, ''Profiles in Character: Hubris and Heroism in the U.S. Senate, 1789-1990'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN1563249383&id=ByeH99C-N_AC&pg=PA198&lpg=PA198&dq=%22that%27s+communism%22&sig=fDBorCuRt2cc10fpTCa449WAFKI]
#*:...[he] condemned Thurmond's proposal for its “totalitarianism”: “That's '''Communism'''....That's China. That's not America.

====Usage notes====
*Beginning in the 1950's, the term '''communism''' was used to describe something negative. This usage is very similar to the way the word ''[[gay]]'' is used. This practice is derived from the fact that people, during the [[Wikipedia:Red Scare|Red Scare]], accused those they disliked of being communists for ludicrous reasons. For example, when a test is difficult or unfair, one can say, "That's communism." This colloquial usage is restricted primarily to [[American English]].

<!--not a legitimate usage of the word "Communism"-->
====Related terms====
*[[communal]]
*[[commune]]
*[[communist]]
*[[commie]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[komunizëm]]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[الشيوعية]]}}
*Azerbaijani: [[kommunizm]]
*Bosnian: [[komunizam]] {{m}}
*Breton: [[komunouriezh]]
*Bulgarian: [[комунизъм]] ''(komunizăm)''
*Catalan: [[comunisme]]
*Chinese: [[共产主义]] ''(gòng chǎn zhǔ yì)''
*Croatian: [[komunizam]] {{m}}
*Czech: [[komunismus]]
*Danish: [[kommunisme]]
*Dutch: [[communisme]]
*Esperanto: [[komunismo]]
*Estonian: [[kommunism]]
*Finnish: [[kommunismi]]
*French: [[communisme]]
*Galician: [[comunismo]]
*Georgian: [[კომუნიზმი]] ''(komunizmi)''
*German: [[Kommunismus]]
*Greek: [[κομμουνισμός]] ''(kommounismós)''
*Hebrew: [[קומוניזם]]
*Hindi: [[साम्यवाद]] (sāmyavād)
*Hungarian: [[kommunizmus]]
*Indonesian: [[komunisme]]
*Irish: [[cumannachas]]
*Italian: [[comunismo]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[共産主義]] ([[きょうさん しゅぎ]]) ''(kyōsan shugi)''
*Korean: [[공산주의]] ''(gongsanjuŭi)''
*Lithuanian: [[komunizmas]]
*Latvian: [[komunisms]]
*Lojban: [[guntrusi'o]]
*Malay: [[komunisme]]
*Min Nan: [[kiōng-sán-chú-gī]]
*Norwegian: [[kommunisme]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[کمونیسم]]}}, {{FAchar|[[اصول اشتراکی]]}}
*Polish: [[komunizm]]
*Portuguese: [[comunismo]]
*Romanian: [[comunism]]
*Russian: [[коммунизм]] ''(kommunizm)''
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[комунизам]] {{m}}
*:Roman: [[komunizam#Serbian|komunizam]] {{m}}
*Slovak: [[komunizmus]]
*Slovenian: [[komunizem]]
*Spanish: [[comunismo]]
*Swedish: [[kommunism]]
*Turkish: [[komünızm]]
*Urdu: {{URchar|[[اشتراکیت]]}} (aštrākiyat)
*Uyghur: [[kommunizm]]
*Vietnamese: [[chủ nghĩa cộng sản]]
*Welsh: [[comiwnyddiaeth]]
*Yiddish: [[komunism]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[leftism]]
*[[Leninism]]
*[[liberalism]]
*[[Maoism]]
*[[Marxism]]
*[[socialism]]
*[[Stalinism]]
*[[Trotskyism]]

[[Category:Communism]]

[[fr:communism]]
[[ko:communism]]
[[io:communism]]
[[hu:communism]]
[[ru:communism]]
[[fi:communism]]
[[vi:communism]]
[[zh:communism]]