==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin '''[[commissio]]''', ''sending together'' or ''commission'', from prefix '''[[com-]]''', ''with'', + noun of action '''[[missio]]''', ''sending'', from perfect passive participle '''[[missus]]''', ''sent'', from verb '''[[mittere]]''', ''send'', + noun of action suffix '''[[-io]]'''

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪʃən|-ɪʃən]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A sending or mission (to do or accomplish something).
#: ''It was James Bond's '''commission''' to defeat the bad guys.''
# An official charge or authority to do something, often used of military officers.
#:''David received his '''commission''' after graduating from West Point.''
# A [[body]] or group of people officially tasked with carrying out a particular function. Eg: The European Commission, The Electoral Commission, The Federal Communications Commission.
#: ''The company's sexual harassment '''commission''' made sure that every employee completed the on-line course.''
# A fee charged by an agent or broker for carrying out a transaction. Eg: Reseller commission, Finder's fee.
#: ''The real-estate broker charged a four percent '''commission''' one last time, before being arrested.''

====Synonyms====
* ''body of officials:'' [[committee]], [[government body]]
* ''fee charged:'' [[brokerage]]

====Translations====
'''mission'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''official authority'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''body of officials'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Kommission]] {{f}} (3)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fee charged'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afsluitprovisie]] {{f}} (4), [[afsluitpremie]] {{f}} (4), [[commissie]] {{f}} (4)
*French: [[commission#French|commission]] {{f}} (4), [[commission d'agent immobilier]] {{f}} (4), [[courtage]] {{m}} (4)
{{mid}}
*German: [[Abschlußprämie]] {{f}} (4), [[Abschlußprovision]] {{f}} (4), [[Provision]] {{f}} (4)
*Spanish: [[comisión]] {{f}} (4)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# ''(transitive)'' To send or officially charge someone or some group to do something.
#: ''James Bond was '''commissioned''' with recovering the secret documents.''
# ''(transitive)'' To place an order for (often piece of art); as, commission a portrait.
#: ''He '''commissioned''' a replica of the Mona Lisa for his living room, but the painter gave up after six months.''
# ''(transitive)'' To put into active service; as, commission a ship.
#: ''The aircraft carrier was '''commissioned''' in 1944, during WWII.''

====Translations====
'''send to do something'''
{{top}}
*German: [[beauftragen]] (1)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''order a work of art'''
{{top}}
*German: [[in Auftrag geben]] (2)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''put into active service'''
{{top}}
*German: [[in Dienst stellen]] (3), [[in Betrieb nehmen]] (3)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[ar:commission]]
[[de:commission]]
[[et:commission]]
[[fr:commission]]
[[io:commission]]
[[it:commission]]
[[hu:commission]]
[[no:commission]]
[[pl:commission]]
[[ta:commission]]
[[vi:commission]]
[[zh:commission]]