=== Etymology ===
From Latin ''computare'' meaning to count or compute.
  
Over the years there have been several slightly different meanings to the word ''computer,'' and several different words for the thing we now usually call a computer.

For instance "computer" was once commonly used to mean a person employed to do arithmetic calculations, with or without mechanical aids. According to the Barnhart Concise Dictionary of Etymology, the word came into use in English in [[1646]] as a word for a "person who computes" and then by [[1897]] also for a mechanical calculating machine. During [[Wikipedia:World War II|World War II]] it referred to U.S. and British servicewomen whose job it was to calculate the trajectories of large artillery shells with such machines.

Various simple mechanical devices such as the [[wikipedia:slide rule|slide rule]] and [[wikipedia:abacus|abacus]] have also been called computers. In some cases they were referred to as "[[wikipedia:analog computer|analog computer]]s", as they represented numbers by continuous physical quantities rather than by discrete [[binary]] digits. What are now called simply "computers" were once commonly called "[[wikipedia:digital computer|digital computer]]s" to distinguish them from these other devices (which are still used in the field of [[wikipedia:analog signal processing|analog signal processing]], for example).

In thinking of other words for the computer, it is worth noting that in other languages the word chosen does not always have the same literal meaning as the [[English|English Language]] word.  In [[French]] for example, the word is ''ordinateur'', which means approximately "organizer", or "sorting machine".  The [[Spanish|Spanish]] word is ''ordenador'' , with the same meaning, although in some countries they use the anglicism ''computadora''.  
In [[Portuguese|Portuguese]], it assumes the form ''computador'' from the verb ''computar'', which means "to compute", "to calculate". In [[Italian|Italian]], computers are usually referred to with the anglicism ''computer'', but there is also the term ''calcolatore'', calculator &mdash; emphasizing its computational uses over logical ones like sorting &mdash; and ''elaboratore'', elaborator.  In [[Persian]] computer is also called رایانه (rayaneh) a Persian word literally meaning "arranger". In [[Swedish|Swedish]], a computer is called ''dator'' from "data". At least in the [[1950s]], they were called ''matematikmaskin'' ("mathematics machine"). In [[Finnish|Finnish]] computer is called ''tietokone'' which means "information machine".  The [[Icelandic]] language's name for a computer is more poetic, their word ''tölva'', a portmanteau meaning "number prophetess". In Chinese, a computer is called &#30005;&#33041; (diànn&#462;o) or an "electric brain". In English, other words and phrases have been used, such as "data processing machine".

===Noun===
#A machine that performs mathematical calculations, especially one that can perform several calculations in sequence without operator intervention.
#A type of apparatus, usually electronic, that can process, store and retrieve large amounts of information very quickly.
#(''largely obsolete'') A person employed to perform computations.

====Related terms====
*[[compute]] (verb)
*[[computation]] (noun)

*[[computer-aided design]]
*[[computer graphics]]
*[[computer language]]
*[[computer science]]

====Translations====
*Arabic: [[كمبيوتر]] (kmbyutr)
*Breton: [[urzhiataer]] ''m'', -ioù ''pl''
*[[Catalan]]: [[ordinador]] ''m''
*Chinese:[[计算机]]/[[电脑]]
*Dutch: computer ''m'', [[rekenaar]] ''m''
*[[Dzongkha]]: [['logrig'we]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[komputilo]]
*Estonian: [[arvuti]]
*Finnish: [[tietokone]]
*French: [[ordinateur]] ''m''
*German: Computer ''m'', Rechner ''m''
*Greek: computer, [[&upsilon;&pi;&omicron;&lambda;&omicron;&gamma;&iota;&sigma;&tau;&#942;&sigmaf;]] ''m''
*Hebrew: [[מחשב|מַחְשֵׁב]] ''m''
*Hindi: (sanghanak)
*Hungarian: [[számitogép]]
*Icelandic: [[tölva]]
*Irish Gaelic: [[ríomhaire]]
*Indonesian: [[komputer]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[computator]]
*Italian: computer ''m''
*Japanese: [[コンピュータ]] (kompyūta), [[計算機]] (けいさんき, keisanki)
*Korean: [[컴퓨터]] (keompyuteo)
*Latvian: [[dators]]
*[[Maori]]: [[rorohiko]]
*Persian: [[رایانه]] (rayaneh)
*Polish: komputer
*Portuguese: [[computador]]
*[[Romanica]]: [[computator]] ''m'', [[ordinator]] ''m''
*Russian: [[компьютер]] (computer) ''m''
*Scottish Gaelic: [[coimpiutair]] ''m''
*[[Slovak]]: [[počítač]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[računalnik]] ''m''
*Spanish:
*: [[ordenador]] ''m'' (Spain, Guatemala, El Salvador, Panama, Honduras, Dominican Republic, Nicaragua)
*: [[computadora]] ''f'' (Mexico, Puerto Rico, Venezuela, Argentina, Peru, Uruguay, Cuba, Costa Rica, Bolivia, Paraguay)
*: [[computador]] ''m'' (Chile, Columbia and sometimes in Peru)
*Swedish: [[dator]]
*Turkish: [[bilgisayarı]]
*Ukrainian: [[комп'ютер]] (computer) ''m''
*[[Volapük]]: [[kompütöm]]
*Yiddish: [[קאָמפּיוטער]]

=== See also ===
*[[w:computer|Wikipedia article on the computer]]

[[pl:computer]]