==English==

===Homophones===
*[[compliment]] (in some dialects)

===Verb===
'''complement'''

# To complete.
#: ''We believe your addition will complement the team.''
# To provide what the partner lacks and lack what the partner provides.
#: ''The flavors of the pepper and garlic complement each other, giving a very rich taste in combination.''
#: ''I believe our talents really complement each other.''
# To change a voltage, number, color, etc. to its complement

===Noun===
'''complement'''

# Something which complements.
#: ''We believe you will make a good complement to our team.'''
# {{geometry}} An angle which, together with a given angle, makes a right angle.
# {{mathematics}} The [[set]] containing exactly those elements of the [[universal set]] not in the given set.
#: ''The complement of the odd numbers is the even numbers, relative to the natural numbers.''
# {{logic}} An expression which is true when the other is false, and vice versa.
# {{electronics}} A voltage level with the opposite logical sense to the given one.
# {{computing}} A [[bit]] with the opposite value to the given one; the [[logical complement]] of a number.
# {{cattag2|computing|mathematics}} The [[diminished radix complement]] of a number; the [[nines' complement]] of a decimal number; the [[ones' complement]] of a binary number.
#: ''The complement of <math>01100101_2</math> is <math>10011010_2</math>.''
# {{cattag2|computing|mathematics}} The [[radix complement]] of a number; the [[two's complement]] of a binary number.
#: ''The complement of <math>01100101_2</math> is <math>10011011_2</math>.''
# {{cattag2|computing|mathematics}} The [[numeric complement]] of a number.
#: ''The complement of -123 is 123.''
# {{music}} An [[interval]] which, together with the given interval, makes an [[octave]].
# The [[color]] which, when mixed with the given color, gives black (for mixing pigments) or white (for mixing light).
#: ''The complement of blue is orange.''
# {{biology}} A [[nucleotide]] sequence in which each base is replaced by the complementary base of the given sequence: [[adenine]] (A) by [[thymine]] (T) or [[uracil]] (U), [[cytosine]] (C) by [[guanine]] (G), and vice versa.
#: ''A DNA molecule is formed from two strands, each of which is the complement of the other.''
# {{biology}} One of several [[blood]] [[protein]]s that work with [[antibody|antibodies]] during an immune response.

===Related Terms===
*[[complementary]]
*[[counterpart]]
*[[full complement]]
*[[logical complement]]
*[[numeric complement]]
*[[radix complement]]
*[[diminished radix complement]]
*[[ones' complement]]
*[[nines' complement]]
*[[ten's complement]]
*[[two's complement]]

===See Also===
*[[compliment]]
*[[invert]]
*[[inversion]]
*[[negate]]
*[[negation]]
*[[supplement]]

===References===
*DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). ''Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music''. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465.

[[io:Complement]]
[[it:complement]]
[[nl:complement]]