==English==
===Noun===
'''compatibility'''
# (in [[telecommunication]]) the capability of two or more items or components of equipment or material to exist or function in the same [[system]] or environment without mutual [[interference]].   
# (in [[computing]]) the ability to execute a given [[computer program|program]] on different types of computers without modification of the program or the computers. See [[backward compatibility]] and [[forward compatibility]].
# (in computing) the capability that allows the substitution of one subsystem ([[storage]] [[facility]]), or of one [[functional unit]] (''e.g.'', [[hardware]], [[software]]), for the originally designated system or functional unit in a relatively transparent manner, without loss of [[information]] and without the introduction of errors.
# (in [[structural analysis]]) the continuity or good fit of material or members or components while being deformed
# (in human society) one of the key factors that decide the survival of the relationship or the length of the relationship. Compatibility in relationship means the likiness of the [[character]]s, [[habit]]s, [[interests]], [[expectation]]s, [[hope]]s, speed & direction of [[personal growth]], etc, of the 2 parties. Alternatively, the elements might not need to be the same but match & complement each other's need. For example, one might like to eat the stalks of vegetable and the other like to eat the leaves of vegetable, then they have less chance to fight while eating vegetable. For men & women, compatibility should be clarified and confirmed during [[courtship]] or dating. Otherwise, it will cause problems in marriage and cause expensive [[divorce]] & irreparably damage to the psychology of the involved off-springs.
# (in [[blood transfusion]]) [[Blood]] from both the blood [[donor]] and the recipient is rigorously tested prior to blood transfusion by a [[hematology]] laborotory or [[blood bank]] to ensure that the blood transfusion is not dangerous.  A donor's blood unit that is safe to transfuse into a patient is said to be '''compatible'''. If blood of the wrong type is transfused to a patient there may be a severe transfusion reaction.  This is dangerous and the blood is said to be '''incompatible'''.

=== Related words ===
* [[compatible]]

[[ar:compatibility]]
[[fr:compatibility]]
[[fi:compatibility]]
[[vi:compatibility]]
[[zh:compatibility]]