Concubine(s):  A slave-girl or group of slave-girls, mostly prominent in ancient Asian or Middle-Eastern cultures

A practice of the prestiged (most often male) rulers of ancient Asian or Middle Eastern cultures where women (usually dispossessed / inconvenienced or slave women) were "acquired" either from other rulers or regions conquered during war.  Acquiring a concubine in ancient times was also reputedly even a commercial business with "slave merchants" in city slave-markets, who bought and sold concubines for a moderate price (via writ).

They were then thus bestowed to such rulers, who upon taking them into possession, considered them as being their own personally owned property.  Such concubines then entered into a strict and often hidden private family life.  Devoted together with the other concubines, they had the purposes of providing pleasure for their masters, and possibly breeding for the purpose of producing male heirs (legal sons of inheritance and with rights to succeed their father or grandfather upon the family or ruling seat) to their master. This owner, often a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sheik sheik], was most commonly a patriarchal position otherwise known as the ruling family head and seat.

Usually any girls born into the extended family were either arranged to be married-off into other families for reasons of extending or reinforcing political ties, or sold immediately into their own future of forced slavery.

Concubines were often considered as "subordinate" under officially-married wives of a ruler, whereas if a wife could not be relied upon to bear an heir, the concubines could move up a notch in rank and become married as an additional wife, if it was thought she was to bear a male heir for her master.

''See also:''  
[[姨]] (for the chinese ideograph), [[concubines]], [[harem]], [[polygamy]], [[seraglio]], [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concubinage Concubinage]