==English==

{{rank|shot|warm|sufficient|929|conduct|directly|James|Greek}}

===Etymology===
Late Latin ''[[conductus]]'', defense, escort, from {{L.}} ''[[conductus]]'', perfect passive participle of ''[[conducere]]''; see also '''[[conduce]]''' and '''[[conduit]]'''

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|En-ca-conduct.ogg|Audio (CA)}}
*(''noun'')
**(''[[RP]]''): /ˈkɒndʌkt/, /<tt>"kQndVkt</tt>/
**(''US''): kŏn'dŭkt, /ˈkɑndʌkt/, /<tt>"kAndVkt</tt>/
*(''verb''): kəndŭkt', /kənˈdʌkt/, /<tt>k@n"dVkt</tt>/
[[Category:English heteronyms]]
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌkt|-ʌkt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#The act or method of controlling or directing
#:''Christianity has humanized the '''conduct''' of war.'' - [[Paley?]].
#Skillful guidance or management; generalship.
#:'''''Conduct''' of armies is a prince's art.'' - [[Waller?]].
#The manner of guiding or carrying one's self; personal deportment; mode of action; behavior.
#:''He carried himself with a distinguished '''conduct'''.''
#(''of a literary work'') Plot; action; construction; manner of development.

====Synonyms====
*(''act or method of controlling or directing ''): [[control]], [[guidance]], [[management]]
*(''manner of guiding or carrying one's self''): [[bearing]], [[behavior]]/[[behaviour]], [[deportment]], [[demeanor]]/[[demeanour]], 
*(''plot of a literary work''): [[action]], [[plot]], [[storyline]]

====Translations====

'''act or method of controlling or directing'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[toimeenpano]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[förrättning]] {{c}}, [[förvaltning]] {{c}}, [[ledning]] {{c}}, [[skötsel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''manner of guiding or carrying one's self'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[johtaminen]]
*French: [[comportement]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[comportamento]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[conducta]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[hållning]] {{c}}, [[uppförande]] {{n}}, [[uppträdande]] {{n}}, [[vandel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''plot of a literary work'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[utförande]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To lead, or guide; to escort; to attend.
#:''I can '''conduct''' you, lady, to a low But loyal cottage, where you may be safe.'' - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]. 
#To lead, as a commander; to direct; to manage; to carry on; as, to conduct the affairs of a kingdom.
#:''Little skilled in the art of '''conducting''' a siege.'' - [[Prescott?]].
#(''[[reflexively]]'' '''to conduct oneself''') To behave.
#:''he '''conducted''' himself well.''
#To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat, light, electricity, etc.
#{{music}} To direct, as the leader in the performance of a musical composition.

====Synonyms====
*(''lead or guide''): [[accompany]], [[escort]], [[guide]], [[lead]], [[steer]]
*(''direct''): [[direct]], [[lead]], [[manage]], [[oversee]], [[run]], [[supervise]]
*(''reflexively: to behave''): [[act]], [[behave]], [[carry on]]
*(''to serve as a medium for conveying''): [[carry]], [[convey]], [[transmit]]

====Translations====

'''lead or guide'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[johtaa]], [[opastaa]], [[saattaa]]
*Spanish: [[guiar]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[föra]], [[leda]], [[ledsaga]]
{{bottom}}

'''direct or manage'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[johtaa]], [[hoitaa]]
*Spanish: [[dirigir]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[anföra]], [[förvalta]], [[handha]], [[leda]], [[sköta]]
{{bottom}}

'''reflexively: behave'''
{{top}}
*French: [[se comporter]]
*Italian: [[comportarsi]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[comportarse]]
*Swedish: [[uppföra]] sig
*Finnish: [[käyttäytyä]]
{{bottom}}

'''to serve as a medium for conveying'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[johtaa]]
*Spanish: [[conducir]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[föra]], [[leda]]
{{bottom}}

'''music: to direct'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[johtaa]]
*Spanish: [[dirigir]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[anföra]], [[dirigera]], [[leda]]
{{bottom}}


=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Esperanto}} [[gvidi]]

===Intransitive Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To act as a conductor (as of heat, electricity, etc.); to carry.

====Translations====

'''act as a conductor (of heat, electricity, etc.)'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[johtaa]]
*Spanish: [[conducir]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[leda]]
{{bottom}}

[[ar:conduct]]
[[fr:conduct]]
[[io:conduct]]
[[it:conduct]]
[[hu:conduct]]
[[fi:conduct]]
[[sv:conduct]]
[[ta:conduct]]
[[vi:conduct]]
[[zh:conduct]]