The term '''conference''' can be used to describe any meeting of people that ''confer'' about a certain topic.

*In [[politics]], a conference is usually a [[multilateral]] [[diplomatic]] negotiation (like the [[Potsdam Conference]]).
*In [[science]], a conference is a formalized event where scientists present their research results in speeches, workshops or by other means.
*In [[Evangelicalism|evangelical]] [[Christianity]], a conference is a series of meetings where topics related to [[Christian views of Jesus|Jesus Christ]], the [[Bible]], and the [[church (disambiguation)|church]] are discussed.  Often new books and other media are present for sale in them and original research may be presented. 
*In [[business]], a [[business conference]] is an event organized by a for-profit or [[non-profit]] organization to discuss a pressing issue -- like a new product, market trend or government regulation -- with a range of speakers. Many are open to the public for a fee.

====External Links====
*[http://www.conferencealerts.com Conference Alerts] lists upcoming academic conferences around the world
*[http://www.e-symposium.com ''e-symposium.com''] Provider of Web Conferences and Industry Intelligence
*[http://www.twst.com/conferences The Wall Street Transcript Conference Series] Provider of Executive Forums for the Financial, Investment and Benefits Industries

====Sports====
*The [[National Hockey League]] is divided into a Western and Eastern '''Conference'''.
*In [[England|English]] [[football (soccer)|association football]], the fifth and sixth tiers of the [[English football league system|football league]] are called the [[Football Conference]].
*In the [[United States]], [[American football|football]] has two [[National Football League|NFL]] conferences: the National Football Conference (NFC), and the American Football Conference (AFC). The winners of these two conferences go on to play in the annual [[Super Bowl]].
In American [[basketball]], there are two [[National Basketball Association|NBA]] conferences - the Western Conference and the Eastern Conference.  The winners of these conferences go on to play in the [[NBA Finals]] for the world's pro basketball championship.  
{{disambig}}