==English==
===Etymology===
From {{L.}} ''[[conflagratio]]''
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-conflagration.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
'''conflagration'''

#A large [[fire]] extending to many objects, or over a [[large]] [[space]]; a [[general]] [[burning]].
#:''The '''conflagration''' took sixty firefighters to put it out.''

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1700s=1787|
1800s=1847 1876 1898|
1900s=1922}}
*'''1787''' — [[w:Alexander_Hamilton|Alexander Hamilton]], ''[[s:Federalist_No._16|Federalist No. 16]]''
*:And as to those mortal feuds which, in certain conjunctures, spread a '''conflagration''' through a whole nation, or through a very large proportion of it, proceeding either from weighty causes of discontent given by the government or from the contagion of some violent popular paroxysm, they do not fall within any ordinary rules of calculation.
*'''1847''' — [[w:Emily Brontë|Emily Brontë]], ''[[s:Wuthering_Heights|Wuthering Heights]] ch. xxxi''
*:'Yes that's all the good that such a brute as you can get from them!' cried Catherine, sucking her damaged lip, and watching the '''conflagration''' with indignant eyes.
*'''1876''' — [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''[[s:The_Adventures_of_Tom_Sawyer|The Adventures of Tom Sawyer]] ch. xiv''
*:A brown spotted lady-bug climbed the dizzy height of a grass blade, and Tom bent down close to it and said, "Lady-bug, lady-bug, fly away home, your house is on fire, your children's alone," and she took wing and went off to see about it -- which did not surprise the boy, for he knew of old that this insect was credulous about '''conflagrations''', and he had practised upon its simplicity more than once.
*'''1898''' — [[w:H. G. Wells|H. G. Wells]], ''[[s:The_War_of_the_Worlds|The War of the Worlds]] ch.11''
*:Every now and then a haze of smoke from some nearer '''conflagration''' drove across the window and hid the Martian shapes.
*'''1922''' — [[w:James Frazer|James Frazer]], ''[[s:The_Golden_Bough|The Golden Bough]]''
*:Again the ancient Italian opinion that mistletoe extinguishes fire appears to be shared by Swedish peasants, who hang up bunches of oak-mistletoe on the ceilings of their rooms as a protection against harm in general and '''conflagration''' in particular.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[爆燃]]
*Czech: [[požár]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[vuurzee]]
*French: [[conflagration#French|conflagration]]
*German: [[Feuersbrunst]]
*Greek: [[πυρκαγιά]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[conflagrazione]]
*Japanese: [[大火災]]
*Korean: [[대화재]]
*Spanish: [[conflagración]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[conflagrant]]
*[[fire]]
*[[wildfire]]

[[fr:conflagration]]
[[pl:conflagration]]