==English==
===Etymology===
Back-formation from ''[[consensus]]''.

===Verb===
'''consense'''
# To [[agree]]; to form a consensus.

===Quotations===
* '''[1970] 2003,''' Harry Hay, “Western Homophile Conference Keynote Address,” in ''Speaking for Our Lives,'' Robert B Ridinger ed. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=PatzOnRJCf4C&pg=PA144&lpg=PA144&sig=CFk9r9_qCI7TL5Gysdtc6bDw1SE]
*: We '''consense''', we affirm and re-affirm the Free Community of Spirit, we acknowledge a spokesman to voice our thinking when such voicings seem called for.
* '''1999,''' Mary Walton, ''Car'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=3xmDzzNiwiUC&pg=PA45&lpg=PA45&sig=hxc7iKJixjH3VehPwG1jsRB3JL8]
*: It’s overblown, it isn’t quite as consensus-oriented management as you might think—but did they '''consense''' on this over twenty years?
* '''2003,''' Milan Daniel, “Algebraic Structures Related to the Consensus Operator for Combining of Beliefs,” in ''Symbolic and Quantitative Approaches to Reasoning With Uncertainty,'' Thomas D. Nielsen and Nevin L Zhang edd.
*: ''Consensus of two opinions is Bayesian iff at least one of the opinions '''consensed''' (i.e. combined by the consensus operator) is Bayesian.''

===Noun===
'''consense'''
# [[Agreement]].

===Quotations===
* '''1995,''' Max Pensky, “Universalism and the situated critic,” in ''The Cambridge Companion to Habermas,'' Stephen K White ed. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=EfP7-iYd120C&pg=PA71&lpg=PA71&sig=Qiq-5jwSChtKCR2Qz46lReOjk9g]
*: In this way the rational constitution of a democratic state is the embodiment of a preestablished, decontextualized social contract, an expectation on which all particular '''consenses''' and compromises must be based: [...]
* '''1999,''' M. Banzi et al., “An Experience in Configuration Management in SODALIA,” in ''System Configuration Management,'' Jacky Estublier ed. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=9N4t8Tq6jzQC&pg=PA85&lpg=PA85&sig=jY0OLldJtQl3G_R6hJisDOfAjWE]
*: Special thanks to Michele Marini for his revision and his '''consense''' to the effort necessary in the writing of the paper.
* '''2001,''' Azizah Y al-Hibri, “Standing at the Precipice,” in ''Religion in American Public Life,'' Azizah Y al-Hibri et al. edd. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=ZBgr7CSZD1wC&sig=vAchrx2BflWr03qE8wt0lphAlcI]
*: If one raises the bar too high—seeking, say, civil harmony and unity rather than the possibility of working and shifting '''consenses''' and a comingling of pluralities and commonalities—religious differences are always going to be problematic at best.