==English==

===Etymology===
{{L.}} ''[[consultare]]'', from ''[[consulere]]'' to consult.

===Alternative spellings===
* [[consultation]] ''(Only noun form in UK)''

===Pronunciation===
:'''''Noun'''''
*[[AHD]]: kŏn'sŭlt ''or'' kənsŭlt'
*[[IPA]]: (''[[RP]]''): /ˈkɒnsʌlt/ ''or'' /kənˈsʌlt/; (''US''): /ˈkɑnsʌlt/
*[[SAMPA]]: (''RP''): /<tt>"kQnsVlt</tt>/ ''or'' /<tt>k@n"sVlt</tt>/; (''US''): /<tt>"kAnsVlt</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-consult-noun.ogg|Audio (US)}}

:'''''Verb'''''
*[[AHD]]: kənsŭlt'
*[[IPA]]: /kənˈsʌlt/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>k@n"sVlt</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-consult-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}
# {{obsolete}}: The act of consulting or deliberating; consultation; also, the result of consulation; determination; decision.
#:''The council broke; And all grave '''consults''' dissolved in smoke.''  -Dryden.
# {{obsolete}}: A council; a meeting for consultation. 
#:''A '''consult''' of coquettes.''  -Swift.
# {{obsolete}}: Agreement; concert. 
# {{US}}: A visit, e.g. to a doctor; a [[consultation]].

====Synonyms====
*[[consultation]]

====Usage note====
The noun [[consult]] is avoided in British English, favoring [[consultation]] instead.  In AmE, they are merely synonyms.

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|consult||}} 
# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take consel; to deliberate together; to confer.
#:''Let us '''consult''' upon to-morrow's business.''  -Shak.
#:''All the laws of England have been made by the kings England, '''consulting''' with the nobility and commons.''  -Hobbes.
# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To [[advise]] or offer expertise.
# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To work as a [[consultant]] or [[contractor]] rather than as a full-time [[employee]] of a firm.
# ''([[transitive]]):'' To ask advice of; to seek the opinion of; to apply to for information or instruction; to refer to; as, to consult a physician; to consult a dictionary.
#:''Men fergot, or feared, to '''consult''' ... ; they were content to '''consult''' liberaries.''  -Whewell.
# ''([[transitive]]):'' To have reference to, in judging or acting; to have regard to; to consider; as, to consult one's wishes.
#:''We are ... to '''consult''' the necessities of life, rather than matters of ornament and delight.''  -L'Estrange.
# ''([[transitive]]),'' {{obsolete}}: To deliberate upon; to take for.
#:''Manythings were there '''consulted''' for the future, yet nothing was positively resolved.''  -Clarendon.
# ''([[transitive]]),'' {{obsolete}}: To bring about by counsel or contrivance; to devise; to contrive.
#:''Thou hast '''consulted''' shame to thy use by cutting off many people.''  -Hab. ii. 10.

{{webster}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[fr:consult]]
[[io:consult]]
[[it:consult]]
[[zh:consult]]