{{wikipedia}}
== English ==

=== Noun ===
'''conspiracy theory'''
# A hypothesis that alleges a group secretly working together often for an illegal or wrongful purpose. In notable cases the hypothesis contradicts what was or is represented as the mainstream explanation for one or more historic or current events.
# A widely varied type or collection of eccentric fiction popularized by most of academia and the entertainment and media industry.
# An accusation that something might be an example from the type or collection of eccentric fiction.

=== Usage notes ===

"Conspiracy theory" has multiple, often confused, uses and definitions. Frequently it is used in an attempt to discourage consideration of or dismiss a controversial and/or taboo allegation the dismisser is representing as being false, paranoid or outlandish. The phrase is potentially confusing at an unconscious literal definition level because of the coincidental fact it can mean both any individual theory that alleges a conspiracy, and, a subtle categorization in an eccentric type or collection of fiction at the same time. Critics of the "conspiracy theory" accusation claim it is used, often subtly or inadvertently, to intentionally misclassify as fiction a theory that alleges a conspiracy for the purposes of: obfuscation, to discredit something that challenges the mainstream view, and/or to thwart a logical and scientific investigation. Some consider the phrase inappropriate if used in an attempt to dismiss theoretical speculation in any form.