==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: ko͞ol
*[[IPA]]: /kuːl/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>ku:l</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-cool.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Alternative spellings===
*(''all non-standard slang''): [[coo]], [[kewl]], [[kool]]

===Adjective===
'''cool''' ({{compar}} '''cooler''', {{superl}} '''coolest''')
# Having a slightly low [[temperature]]; mildly or pleasantly cold.
# Of a person, not showing emotion. {{ref|1}}
# (''colloquial'') Of a person, knowing what to do and how to behave in any situation. \
# (''colloquial'') In [[fashion]]. 
#:''"Steven is very cool," Chris stated, "even cooler than I am!"''
# (''colloquial'') Of an action, [[all right]], [[acceptable]], that does not [[present]] a [[problem]].
# (''colloquial'') Of a person, not upset by circumstances that might ordinarily be upsetting.
#:''I'm completely '''cool''' about my girlfriend leaving me.''
#Being considered as ''"popular"'' by others
*(''having a slightly low temperature''): [[chilly]]
*(''not showing emotion''): [[distant]], [[phlegmatic]], [[standoffish]], [[unemotional]] 
*(''knowing what to do and how to behave''):
*(''in fashion''):
**(''standard''): ''[[à la mode]]'', [[fashionable]], [[in fashion]], [[modish]], [[stylish]]
**(''colloquial/slang''): [[happening]], [[hip]], [[in]], [[trendy]]
*(''acceptable''): [[acceptable]], [[all right]], [[OK]]
*(''not upset''): [[easy]], [[fine]], not [[bothered]], not [[fussed]] 

====Antonyms====
*(''having a slightly low temperature''): [[lukewarm]], [[tepid]], [[warm]]
*(''not showing emotion''): [[passionate]]
*(''knowing what to do and how to behave''): [[awkward]], [[uncool]]
*(''in fashion''): [[démodé]], [[old hat]], [[out]], out of [[fashion]]
*(''acceptable''): [[not cricket]] (''UK''), [[not on]], [[unacceptable]]
*(''not upset''): [[bothered]], [[upset]]

{{rfc}}
====Quotations====
# {{note|1}} The earliest use of the word in this way seems to be in Wilkie Collins' [http://collins.thefreelibrary.com/The-Moonstone/40-1 "The Moonstone"] 1868:
:''"She has been a guest of yours at this house," I answered. "May I venture to suggest &mdash; if nothing was said about me beforehand &mdash; that I might see her here?"''

:''"Cool!" said Mr. Bruff. With that one word of comment on the reply that I had made to him, he took another turn up and down the room.''

:''"In plain English," he said, "my house is to be turned into a trap to catch Rachel ...''



====Translations====

'''having a slightly low temperature'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[fresk]], [[sin#Breton|sin]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[fred#Catalan|fred]], [[fresc]] {{m}}, [[freda]], [[fresca]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[kølig]]
*Dutch: [[koel]], [[fris]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[malvarmeta]]
*Finnish: [[viileä]]
*French: [[frais]] {{m}}, [[fraîche]] {{f}},
*German: [[kühl]]
*[[Guarani]]: [[ro'ysã]]
{{mid}}
*Indonesian: [[sejuk]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[fresc]]
*Italian: [[fresco#Italian|fresco]] {{m}}, [[fresca#Italian|fresca]] {{f}}
*Marathi: [[थंड]]
*Portuguese: [[fresco]] {{m}}, [[fresca]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[fresco#Spanish|fresco]] {{m}}, [[fresca#Spanish|fresca]] {{f}}
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[ro'ysang]]
{{bottom}}

'''not showing emotion'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: of a person, knowing what to do and how to behave in any situation'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: in fashion'''
{{top}}
*Esperanto: [[mojosa]]
*French: cool ''m and f''
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[guay]] ''m and f''
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: all right, acceptable'''
{{top}}
*Esperanto: [[en#Esperanto|en]] [[ordo#Esperanto|ordo]], [[enorde]]
*French: cool
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[guay]]
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: not upset'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate tables above.  Note that the numbering could be unreliable.


*[[Catalan]]: [[mestre]] {{m}} (2), [[guai]] (3)
*Chinese: [[凉的]], [[凉快的]] (1); [[酷]] (ku) (1, 3)
*Danish: cool (2, 3)
*Dutch: cool (2, 3), [[hip#Dutch|hip]] (4), [[blits]] (4)
*German: cool (2, 3), [[toll]] (3), [[geil]] (3)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[disinvolte]], [[experte]] (2); [[bon]], [[excellente]] (3)
*Japanese: [[涼しい]] (すずしい, suzushii) (1), [[すごい]] (sugoi) (2,3)
*Portuguese: ''in Brazil'' [[safo]] {{m}}, [[safa]] {{f}} (2); (''in Brazil'') [[bacana]] {{m}} & {{f}}, (''in Brazil'') [[legal]] {{m}} & {{f}}, (''Lus.'') [[fixe]] {{m}} & {{f}} (3)<!--what does "Lus." mean?  Please write this in full.-->
*Spanish: [[chido]], [[padre]] (2, 3; ''Mexican slang'')
*[[Verlan]]: [[looc]] (2, 3)

[[Category:English adjectives]]
[[Category:Positive words]]

[[de:cool]]
[[es:cool]]
[[it:cool]]
[[pt:Cool]]
[[fi:cool]]

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|cool||}}


#To lose heat, to get colder.
#:''I like to let my tea '''cool''' before drinking it so I don't burn by tongue.''