==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[coördinate]]
*[[co-ordinate]]

===Noun===
'''coordinate''' (''plural'' '''[[coordinates]]''')

# In mathematics or cartography, a [[number]] representing the [[position]] of a [[point]] along a [[line]], [[arc]], or similar one-dimensional figure. A [[set]] of coordinates specifies position in a multi-dimensional system, with one number corresponding to the position along each of a set of mutually [[perpendicular]] lines, arcs, [[etc.]]

====Usage notes====
The usual pronunciation of ‘oo’ is /uː/ or /ʊ/. The [[dieresis]] in the spelling [[coördinate]] emphasizes that the second o begins a separate syllable. However, the dieresis is becoming increasingly rare in English typography, so the spelling [[coordinate]] predominates.

====Translations====
'''mathematics or cartography'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[coördinaat]] {{m}}
*French: [[coordonnée]] {{f}}
*German: [[Koordinate]] {{f}}
*[[Irish]]: [[comhordán]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[coordinata]] 'f''
*Korean: [[좌표]]
*Swedish: [[koordinat]]
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
*[[axis]]

===Verb===
'''to coordinate''' (''[[present participle]]'' '''coordinating''', ''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''coordinated''')

# {{transitive}} To [[synchronize]] (activities).
# {{transitive}} To [[match]] (objects, especially clothes).

====Translations====
'''to synchronize'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[coördineren]]
*German: [[koordinieren]]
{{mid}}
*Korean: 제대로 된 [[location|위치]]나 [[status|상태]]가 되도록 맞추다.
::e.g.) 정확한 [[time|시간]]에 맞춰 [[watch|시계]] 바늘을 맞추다.
::e.g.) [[movie|영화]] 등에서 [[image|영상]]과 [[sound|소리]]간의 재생 시점을 맞추다.
*Swedish: [[koordinera]]
{{bottom}}

'''to match'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[doen bijeen passen]], [[zorgen dat het bijeenpast]]
{{mid}}
*Korean: 1.[[cloth|의복]] 따위를 어울리게 맞춰입다.
:::2.물건들을 적재적소에 배치하거나 [[classification|분류]]에 맞게 두다.
:::3.상황이 조화롭게 돌아갈 수 있게 하다.
{{bottom}}

[[ar:coordinate]]
[[fr:coordinate]]
[[io:coordinate]]
[[hu:coordinate]]
[[pl:coordinate]]
[[zh:coordinate]]