==English==

{{rank|laws|run|position|541|copy|opened|purpose|fall}}

===Etymology===
{{F.}} ''[[copie]]'', {{ML.}} ''[[copia]]'' "reproduction, transcript," from {{L.}} ''[[copia]]'' "plenty, means".  It should be noted here of the possible relation of the modern '''copy''' to the hebrew [[כף]] '''caph'''.   Although '''kaph''' means literally "cup", the '''kaph''' is also a hebrew letter that acts as a prepositional modifier meaning, appropriately, '''like or similar to'''.  

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-y|cop|y}}

# The result of copying (''confer'' [[original]]); an identical duplication.
#: ''Please bring me the '''copies''' of those reports.''
# An imitation of inferior quality.
#: ''That handbag is a '''copy'''.  You can tell because the buckle is different.''
# (''journalism'') The text that is to be typeset.
# {{uncountable}} The text of newspaper articles.
#: ''Submit all '''copy''' to the appropriate editor.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kopie]] (1), [[afschrift]] (1), [[nabootsing]] (2), [[kopij]] (3,4)
*Finnish: [[jäljennös]], [[kopio]]
*German: [[Kopie]] ''f'' (1), [[Nachahmung]] ''f'' (2)
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[copia]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[copia]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant-y|cop|y|}}

# To produce an object identical to a given object.
#: ''Please '''copy''' these reports for me''
# To imitate.
#: ''Don't '''copy''' my dance moves.''
#: ''Mom, he's '''copying''' me!''
# (''radio'') Receive a transmission successfully.
#: ''Do you '''copy'''?''

====Translations====
'''produce something identical'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kopiëren]]
*Finnish: [[kopioida]]; [[jäljentää]]
*French: [[copier]]
*German: [[kopieren]]
*Italian: [[copiare]] 
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[kopiować]]; [[podwajać]]
*Romanian: a copia
*Portuguese: [[copiar]]
*Russian: [[копировать]] (kopirovatʹ)
*Spanish: [[copiar]]
*Swedish: [[kopiera]]
{{bottom}}

'''imitate'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[nabootsen]], [[nadoen]], [[naäpen]]
*Finnish: [[jäljitellä]] 
*French: [[imiter]]
*German: [[nachmachen]] 
*Italian: [[imitare]] 
*Polish: [[naśladować]], [[udawać]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[imitar]]
*Romanian: a copia, a imita
*Russian: [[подражать]] (podražatʹ)
*Spanish: [[imitar]]
*Swedish: [[härma]]
{{bottom}}

'''Radio term'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[ontvangen]]
*Finnish: [[vastaanottaa]] 
*French: [[recevoir]]
*German: [[verstanden]], [[empfangen]] 
*Italian: [[ricevere]] 
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[odbierać]]
*Portuguese: [[receber]]
*Russian: [[принять]] (prinǎtʹ)
*Spanish: [[recibir]]
*Swedish: [[mottaga]]
{{bottom}}

===Related Terms===

* [[copious]]
* [[carbon copy]]
* [[fair copy]]
* [[photocopy]]
* [[cc]]
* [[cop]]
* [[copy editor]]
* [[copydesk]]
* [[copier]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fa:copy]]
[[fr:copy]]
[[ko:copy]]
[[io:copy]]
[[it:copy]]
[[hu:copy]]
[[pl:copy]]
[[fi:copy]]
[[zh:copy]]