==English==
===Noun===
'''coral''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''corals''')

#(''uncountable'') A hard substance made of the [[limestone]] [[skeleton]]s of [[marine]] [[polyp]]s.
#(''countable'') A [[colony]] of marine polyps.
#(''countable'') A somewhat [[yellowish]] [[pink]] [[colour]], the colour of red coral.

====Translations====
'''substance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''colony'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[koraalrood]] ''n''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is unreliable.
*Chinese: [[珊瑚]]
*Dutch: [[koraal]] ''n'' (1), [[koraalrif]] ''n'' (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[koralo]]
*French: [[corail]] ''m''
*German: [[Korallenriff]] ''n'' (1, 2) 
*Italian: [[corallo]]
*Japanese: [[珊瑚]] (さんご)
*Latvian: [[korallis]] ''m'' (1, 2)

===Adjective===
'''coral'''

#Made of coral.
#Having the yellowish pink colour of coral.

====Translations====

'''made of coral'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[koraal]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''having the yellowish pink colour of coral'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[koraalrood]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*[[Esperanto]]: [[korala]]

===Proper noun===
'''Coral'''

#A female [[given name]].

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Wiktionary appendix of colours]]
*[[w:coral|Wikipedia article on coral]]

[[it:coral]]