{{see|córner}}

==English==

{{rank|spring|troops|meeting|898|corner|spite|built|lower}}

===Etymology===
Old French ''[[corniere]]'', cornier, Late Latin ''[[cornerium]]'', corneria, from Latin ''[[cornu]]'' horn, end, point. See [[horn]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-corner.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)nə(r)|-ɔː(r)nə(r)]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The [[point]] where two converging lines meet; an [[angle]], either external or internal.
#:''The '''corners''' of the wire mesh were reinforced with little blobs of solder.''
# The space in the angle between converging lines or walls which meet in a point.
#:''The chimney '''corner''' was full of cobwebs.''
# The [[projection]] into space of an angle in a solid object.
#:''Herbert bruised his shin on the '''corner''' of the coffee table.''
# An [[intersection]] of two streets; any of the four outer points off the street at that intersection.
#:''The liquor store on the '''corner''' also sold lottery tickets.''
# An edge or [[extremity]]; the part farthest from the center; hence, any [[quarter]] or part, or the direction in which it lies.
#:''From the four '''corners''' of the earth they come.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
# A secret or [[secluded]] place; a remote or out of the way place; a [[nook]].
#:''On weekends, Emily liked to find a quiet '''corner''' and curl up with a good book.''
# {{economics}} A [[monopoly]] or controlling interest in a salable commodity, allowing the controlling party to dictate terms of sale.
#:''In the 1970's, private investors tried to obtain a '''corner''' on the silver market, but were ultimately unsuccessful.''
# {{baseball}} One of the four vertices of the [[strike zone]].
#: ''The pitch was just off the '''corner''', low and outside.''
#{{football}} An [[indirect free kick]] made from the corner of the pitch as the result of an opposition player kicking the ball over his own [[touchline]]

====Translations====
;point where two converging lines meet
:see [[angle]]

;area in the angle between converging lines or walls
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[racó]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[kut]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[angulo]]
*Finnish: [[nurkka]]
*French: [[coin#French|coin]] {{m}}
*German: [[Ecke]] {{f}}, [[Winkel]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[פינה]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[angolo]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[quina]]
*Slovenian: [[vogal]] {{m}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[మూల]] (mUla)
{{bottom}}

;projection into space of an angular solid
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;intersection of two streets
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[cantonada]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[ugao]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[angulo]]
*German: [[Ecke]] {{f}}
*Hebrew: [[פינה]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[sarok]]
*Italian: [[angolo]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[esquina]]
*Slovenian: [[vogal]] {{m}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[మూల]] (mUla)
{{bottom}}

;part or region
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;secret or secluded place
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[soppi]], [[sopukka]]
*French: [[coin#French|coin]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*German: [[Ecke]] {{f}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[మూల]] (mUla)
{{bottom}}

;state of things produced by people who buy up whole of stock
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[esquina]] {{f}}, [[rincón]] {{m}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[drive]] (someone) into a corner or other [[confined]] space.
#:''The cat had '''cornered''' a cricket between the sofa and the television stand.''
# {{transitive}} To [[trap]] in a position of great difficulty or hopeless embarrassment.
#:''The reporter '''cornered''' the politician by pointing out the hypocrisy of his position on mandatory sentencing, in light of the politician's own actions in court.
# {{transitive}} To get [[command]] of (a stock, [[commodity]], etc.), so as to be able to put one's own [[price]] on it.
#:''The buyers attempted to '''corner''' the shares of the railroad stock, so as to facilitate their buyout.''
#:''It's extremely hard to corner the petroleum market because there are so many players.''
# {{cattag|automotive|transitive}} To [[turn]] a corner or drive around a [[curve]]. 
#:''As the stock car driver '''cornered''' the last turn, he lost control and spun out.''
# {{cattag|automotive|intransitive}} To [[handle]] while moving around a corner in a road or otherwise turning.
#:''That BMW '''corners''' well, but the suspension is too stiff.''

====Translations====
;drive into a corner
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ahdistaa]] [[nurkka|nurkkaan]], [[ajaa]] [[nurkka|nurkkaan]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;trap in a position of great difficulty or hopeless embarrassment
{{top}}
*German: [[in die Enge treiben]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;get command of a stock or commodity
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;move around a corner in a road
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;handle a turn
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[catercorner]]
*[[corner shop]]
*[[cornerstone]]
*[[corner store]]
*[[corner tooth]]
*[[cow corner]]
*[[kitty corner]]

===See also===
*[[pick corners]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
{{it-noun|corne|m|r|r}}

# [[corner#English|corner]] (in Football)

[[ang:corner]]
[[fr:corner]]
[[hy:corner]]
[[io:corner]]
[[id:corner]]
[[it:corner]]
[[hu:corner]]
[[pt:corner]]
[[simple:corner]]
[[fi:corner]]
[[ta:corner]]
[[vi:corner]]
[[zh:corner]]