==English==
===Etymology===
French ''corruption'', from Latin ''[[corruptio]]''

===Noun===
'''corruption''' (''[[uncountable]] and [[countable]]; plural'' '''[[corruptions]]''')

#The act of corrupting or making [[putrid]], or state of being [[corrupt]] or putrid; decomposition or disorganization, in the process of putrefaction; [[putrefaction]]; [[deterioration]].
#:''The inducing and accelerating of putrefaction is a subject of very universal inquiry; for '''corruption''' is a reciprocal to generation.'' &mdash; [[w:Francis Bacon|Francis Bacon]].
#The product of corruption; putrid matter.
#The act of corrupting or of impairing integrity, virtue, or moral principle; the state of being corrupted or debased; loss of purity or integrity; depravity; wickedness; impurity; bribery.
#:''It was necessary, by exposing the gross '''corruptions''' of monasteries, . . . to exite popular indignation against them.'' &mdash; [[w:Arthur Hallam|Hallam]]
#:They abstained from some of the worst methods of '''corruption''' usual to their party in its earlier days. &mdash; [[w:Bancroft|Bancroft]]
#*'''Usage note:''' Corruption, when applied to officers, trustees, etc., signifies the inducing a violation of duty by means of pecuniary considerations. &mdash; [[w:Abbott|Abbott]]
#The act of changing, or of being changed, for the worse; departure from what is pure, simple, or correct; as, a corruption of style; corruption in language.
#(''linguistics'') A word that has adopted from another language but whose spelling has been changed through misunderstanding, transcription error, mishearing, etc.
#Parts of a [[machine]] can be ''corrupted'', meaning broken.
#''Corruption'' is used, especially poetically, to describe the [[decomposition]] of biological matter. This usage is [[archaic]].

====Synonyms====

*(''act of corrupting or making [[putrid]]''): [[adulteration]], [[contamination]], [[debasement]], [[defilement]], [[dirtying]], [[soiling]], [[tainting]]
*(''state of being [[corrupt]] or putrid''): [[decay]], [[decomposition]], [[deterioration]], [[putrefaction]], [[rotting]]
*(''product of corruption; putrid matter''): [[decay]], [[putrescence]], [[rot]]
*(''act of impairing integrity, virtue or moral principle''):
*(''state of being corrupted or debased''): [[debasement]], [[depravity]], [[evil]], [[impurity]], [[sinfulness]], [[wickedness]]
*(''bribery''): [[bribery]]
*(''act of changing for the worse''): [[deterioration]], [[worsening]]
*(''act of being changed for the worse''): [[destroying]], [[ruining]], [[spoiling]]
*(''departure from what is pure or correct''): [[deterioration]], [[erosion]]
*(''word adopted from another language whose spelling has been changed''):
<!--where might these go?
*[[deprivation]
*[[debasement]]
*[[taint]]
-->

====Derived terms====
*[[corruption of blood]]
<!--move to their own pages
*'''Corruption of blood,''' ''(Law):'' taint or impurity of blood, in consequence of an act of attainder of treason or felony, by which a person is disabled from inheriting any estate or from transmitting it to others.
**'''Corruption of blood''' can be removed only by act of Parliament. - [[Blackstone]]
-->

{{webster}}

[[et:Corruption]]
[[it:corruption]]
[[pl:Corruption]]