Pronounciation: '''ˈkdzməkræt'''

[[cosmo]] + [[crat]]

*Cosmocrat [[noun]]
*Cosmocrator [[noun]]
*Cosmocratic [[adjective]]

==Definition==

'''1.''' Lord or ruler of the world, the prince of this world;

'''2.''' An ultimate 'Higher Power', a [[deity]], [[God]] or [[Satan]], an all powerful being;

'''3.''' Chief executive of the [[universe]];

'''4.''' Grand [[architect]] of the universe;

'''5.''' The [[Creator]] of life;

'''6.''' A properous business school graduate benefiting from [[globalization]] and living the global lifestyle.

==Translation==
([[German]] ([http://de.wiktionary.org/wiki/Herr Herr] [http://de.wiktionary.org/wiki/der der] [http://de.wiktionary.org/wiki/Welt Welt])

([[Greek]] κοσμοκράτωρ)

==Etymology==

*'''2003AD''' John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, ''A Future Perfect : The Challenge and Promise of Globalization'', 'Chapter 12 - Cosmocrats: An Anxious Elite' 

:page 69: "a cadre of people who live the global lifestyle more thoroughly than any other modern business people [...] well educated business school graduates." 

:page 226: "On the other hand, the definition of a '''cosmocrat''' is much tighter than just "somebody who had prospered from globalization."  '''Cosmocrats''' are defined by their attitudes and lifestyles rather than just their bank accounts.  That separates them from the widest class of winners from globalization, who are simply local people who have plugged into global networks [...] So who are the '''cosmocrats'''?  The backbone of the group is still provided by people such as Knapp: the loyal retainers of sprawling multinationals."

*'''1990AD''' Alexander Scobie, ''Hitler's State Architecture'', page 114:

:"External symbols suggest that the domed hall was where [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hitler Hitler] as '''cosmocrator''' ([[German|Gr]] Herr der Welt) would appear before his Herrenvolk: On top of the dome's lantern was an eagle grasping in its claws not the usual swastika but the globe of the Earth ([[German|Gr]] Erdball)."

*'''1870AD''' E. Peacock, ''Ralf Skirl. III. 113'':
:"Endeavouring to solve that problem, which even the great '''cosmocrat''' we have alluded to seems to have found a difficult one."

*'''1831AD''' [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Southey Robert Southey], ''[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Devil%27s_Walk Devils Walk. 28]'', 
:"You will not think great '''Cosmocrat'''!  That I spend my time in fooling."

*'''1831AD''' [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Southey Robert Southey], ''Q. Rev. XLV. 427'':
:"The idiosyncratic demorcratic, '''cosmocratic''', comicocratic Jeremy that he [Bentham] is."

*'''1822AD''' T. Taylor, ''[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucius_Apuleius Apuleius]'' 258:
:"The '''cosmocrators''' [planets] are the leaders of the multitude in each."

*'''1708AD''' H. Dodwell, ''Nat. Mortality Hum. Souls 130'':
:"Yet they reckon her [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sophia_%28gnosticism%29 Sophia] among their proper [[Aeons]], far exceeding the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demiurgus Demiurgus] and '''Cosmocratores'''."

*'''200AD''' [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iranaeus Iranaeus] in the late second century, describes part of the complex mythology of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valentinius Valentinus] the Gnostic:

:“They teach that the spirits of wickedness derive their origin from grief. Herein the devil, whom they also call '''Cosmocrator''' and the demons, and the angels, and every wicked spiritual being that exists found the source of their existence. They represent the Demiurge as being the son of that mother of theirs [Achamoth] and '''Cosmocrator''' as creature of the Demiurge. '''Cosmocrator''' has knowledge of what is above him, because he is a spirit of wickedness; but the Demiurge is ignorant of such things, inasmuch as he is merely animal.”

*'''200AD''' [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gnosticism Gnostic] [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nag_Hammadi Gospels]: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Treatise_of_the_Great_Seth The Second Treatise of the Great Seth]:
:"And then a voice - of the '''Cosmocrator''' - came to the angels: "I am God and there is no other beside me.""


[[User:WritersCramp|WritersCramp]] 02:00, 17 Jun 2005 (UTC)