==English==

===Etymology===
{{F.}} Approx 1750. '''[[cotte]]''': petticoat to cotillion : cotillion. Said to be derived from the (then) popular song “''Ma commere, quand je danse, Mon cotillion va-t-il bien”'' 

===Noun===
# A [[bold]] [[dance]] performed in groups of eight where [[ladies]] lift their [[skirts]] to display their [[ankles]]!
#* '''1797''' Mrs. Hughes now joined them, and asked Miss Tilney if she was ready to go.  "I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing you again soon," said Catherine. "Shall you be at the '''cotillion''' ball tomorrow?"  ''Jane Austin Northanger Abbey (written 1797 first published 1818) Chapter 10.''
#* [http://www.streetswing.com/histmain/z3cotte.htm]
# The music regulating the cotillion.
#*'''1848''' I kept a parlor open for the reception of visitors, many came here to practise with me, and many more to listen to us—several young men put themselves under my tuition, and although I had never been taught myself, they progressed finely in their studies and I soon brought out, not only the best field music, but also for dinners, balls, cotilion and tea parties, weddings, &c. ''THRILLING SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF THE DISTINGUISHED CHIEF OKAH TUBBEE ALIAS, WM. CHUBBEE, Son of the Head Chief, Mosholeh Tubbee, of theChoctaw Nation of Indians. BY REV. L. L. ALLEN, AUTHOR OF “PENCILLINGS UPON THE RIO GRANDE,” &c. NEW YORK, 1848. ENTERED according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1848, by Okah Tubbee, alias William Chubbee, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. AN ESSAY UPON THE INDIAN CHARACTER.''[http://docsouth.unc.edu/neh/tubbee1848/tubbee1848.xml]

====Alternative  spelling====
[[cotillon]]