{{see|Counter|counter-}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/ˈkaʊntə/}}

===Etymology 1===
Anglo-Norman ''[[countour]]'', from Old French ''[[conteor]]'' (French ''[[comptoir]]''), from mediaeval Latin ''[[computatorium]]'', from Latin ''[[computare]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An object (now especially a small disc) used in counting or keeping count, or as a marker in games, etc.
#:''He rolled a six on the dice, so moved his '''counter''' forward six spaces.''
# {{curling}} Any [[stone]] lying closer to the center than any of the opponent's stones.
# A table or board on which money is counted and over which business is transacted; a shop tabletop on which goods are examined, weighed or measured.
#:''He put his money on the '''counter''', and the shopkeeper put it in the till.''
# One who counts, or reckons up; a reckoner.
#:''He's only 16 months, but is already a good '''counter''' - he can count to 100.''
# A telltale; a contrivance attached to an engine, printing press, or other machine, for the purpose of counting the revolutions or the pulsations.
# (''Historical'') The prison attached to a city court; a [[Counter]]
# {{cattag|grammar}} a class of word used along with numbers to count objects and events, typically mass nouns. Although rare and optional in English (e.g. "20 '''[[head]]''' of cattle"), they are numerous and required in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.

===Etymology 2===
From Old (and modern) French ''[[contre]]'', from Latin ''[[contra]]''.

====Adverb====
'''counter'''
# Contrary, in [[opposition]]; in an opposite direction
#:"Running '''counter''' to all the rules of virtue."  -Locks.

===Etymology 3===
From [[counter-]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[contradict]], [[oppose]]
# ''(Boxing):'' To return a blow while receiving one, as in boxing.
#:"His left hand countered provokingly."  -C. Kingsley.
# To take action in response to; to [[respond]]

====Adjective====
'''counter'''
# [[Contrary]]; [[opposite]]; [[contrasted]]; [[opposed]]; [[adverse]]; antagonistic.
#:''His carrying a knife was counter to my plan.''

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
* [[counter current]]
* [[counter revolution]]
* [[counter poison]]
{{mid2}}
* [[counter agent]]
* [[counter fugue]]
{{bottom}}

[[ar:counter]]
[[fr:counter]]
[[io:counter]]
[[it:counter]]
[[zh:counter]]