==English==

{{rank|wished|school|language|751|court|British|meant|tears}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kɔːrt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-court.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)t|-ɔː(r)t]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#An inclosed space; a [[courtyard]]; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley.
#The residence of a [[sovereign]], prince, nobleman, or ether dignitary; a [[palace]].
#The collective body of persons composing the retinue of a sovereign or person high in authority; all the surroundings of a sovereign in his regal state.
#Any formal assembling of the retinue of a sovereign; as, to hold a court.
#Attention directed to a person in power; conduct or address designed to gain favor; courtliness of manners; civility; compliment; flattery.
#The [[hall]], chamber, or place, where justice is administered.
#The persons officially assembled under authority of [[law]], at the appropriate time and place, for the administration of [[justice]]; an official [[assembly]], legally met together for the transaction of judicial business; a judge or [[judge]]s sitting for the hearing or [[trial]] of causes.
#A tribunal established for the administration of justice.
#The judge or judges; as distinguished from the counsel or jury, or both.
#The session of a judicial assembly.
#Any [[jurisdiction]], civil, military, or ecclesiastical.
#A place arranged for playing the game of tennis; also, one of the divisions of a [[tennis]] court.

====Translations====
*Arabic: منطقة أو محكمة
*Chinese: [[法院]], [[宫廷]], [[庭院]]
*Dutch: [[Rechtbank]]
*Esperanto: [[instanco]] (7-9)
*Finnish: [[oikeus]] (6,7), [[tuomioistuin]] (6,7)
*German: [[Gericht]] ''n'' (6-11)
*Italian: [[corte]], [[tribunale]]
*Japanese: [[中庭]], [[裁判所]], [[宮廷]]
*Nepalese: [[अदालत]]
*Polish: [[sąd]]
*Swedish: gård (1), hov (2,3,4), domstol (6,7,8), rätt (6,7,8), tribunal (8), (tennis-)plan (12).

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# [[Woo]]; attempt to win over with social activities and displays of breeding; tact and affection.

]

[[ar:court]]
[[zh-min-nan:court]]
[[de:court]]
[[et:court]]
[[el:court]]
[[fa:court]]
[[fr:court]]
[[gl:court]]
[[io:court]]
[[id:court]]
[[it:court]]
[[hu:court]]
[[ru:court]]
[[fi:court]]
[[ta:court]]
[[vi:court]]
[[zh:court]]