==English==

===Etymology===
Middle English ''[[coveren]]''< Old French ''[[covrir]]''< Latin ''[[cooperire]]'' (to cover completely).
 
According to the [[w:Oxford English Dictionary|Oxford English Dictionary]], the original sense of the verb and noun '''cover''' was ''hide from view'' as in its [[cognate]] '''[[covert]]'''.  Except in the limited sense of ''cover again'', the word '''[[recover]]''' is unrelated and is cognate with '''[[recuperate]]'''.

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[lid]]
# The hiding from [[view]].
# The front and back of a [[book]] or [[magazine]].
# The top [[sheet]] of a [[bed]].
# {{music}}: A [[cover version]]; a [[cover song]].
# {{cricket}} A [[fielding]] [[position]] on the [[off]] side, between [[point]] and [[mid off]], about 30° [[forward]] of [[square]]; a [[fielder]] in this position.
# A setting at a restaurant table.
#:''We need to set another '''cover''' for the Smith party.''
# {{topology}} A set (more often known as a ''[[family]]'') of sets, whose union contains the given set.
#: ''The open intervals are a '''cover''' for the real numbers.''
# A [[cover charge]].
#: ''There's a $15 '''cover''' tonight.''
# (stamp collecting) an [[envelope]] complete with [[stamp]]s and [[postmark]]s etc.
====Translations====
'''lid'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[deksel]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[kansi]]
*German: [[Deckel]] ''m'', [[Abdeckung]] {{f}} 
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[lock]] ''n'', [[skydd]] ''n''
*{{te}}: [[మూత]] (mootha)
{{bottom}}

'''hiding'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[dekking]]
*Finnish: [[suoja]]
*German: [[Deckung]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[gömma]] ''c'' , [[gömställe]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''front and back of a book or a magazine'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kaft]], [[omslag]] ''m, n''
*Finnish: [[kansi]] 
*German: [[Einband]] ''m'' (''book''), [[Umschlag]] ''m'' (''magazine'')
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[omslag]] ''n'' (''magazine, paperback book or the content of the cover of a hardcover book''), [[pärmar]] (''plural, of a book'')
{{bottom}}

'''top sheet'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[sprei]]
*Finnish: [[peite]], [[päiväpeitto]]
*German: [[Decke]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[täcke]] ''n''
*{{te}}: [[దుప్పటి]] (duppati)
{{bottom}}

'''cover version'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[cover#Dutch|cover]]
*Finnish: [[cover#Finnish|cover]]
*German: [[Cover]] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[cover#Swedish|cover]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''cricket fielding position'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''setting at a restaurant table'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''family of sets'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Überdeckung]] {{f}} 
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[övertäckning]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''cover charge'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[entree]], ''Flanders:'' [[inkom]]
*Swedish: [[inträde]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[kovrilo]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[couvre]], [[couvercle]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[kovrilo]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[tutup]], [[lingkup]], [[tudung]], [[sampul]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[カバー]] (kabā)
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[чехол]] ''m'' (chekhól)

===Adjective===
'''cover'''

# Of or pertaining to the front cover of a book or magazine.
# {{music}}: Originally recorded by one artist, but later rerecorded by another artist. 
# Of, pertaining to, or consisting of cover versions.

====Translations====
'''about cover of a book or magazine'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kansi-]] 
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[omslags-]]
{{bottom}}

'''concerning a cover version'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[cover-#Finnish|cover-]] 
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[cover-#Swedish|cover-]]
{{bottom}}


===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|cover||}}

# To [[place]] something [[over]] or [[upon]] to [[conceal]] or [[protect]].
# To feature, discuss, or mention.
# To provide enough money for.
# {{music}}: To make a [[cover version]] of (a song that was originally recorded by another artist).
# {{military}} To protect moving troops by escorting them, or by continuous, heavy firing at or in the direction of the enemy as to force them to stay in cover

====Translations====
'''to conceal or protect'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[dekken]], [[bedekken]]
*Finnish: [[piilottaa]] (1)
*German: [[decken]] (1,4)
{{mid}}
*Old English: [[bihreosan|bihrēosan]]
*Swedish: [[täcka]] (1), [[skydda]] (1)
*{{te}}: [[మూయు]] (mooyu)
{{bottom}}

'''mention'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[behandelen]]
*Finnish: [[mainita]]
*German: [[abdecken]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[täcka]]
{{bottom}}

'''provide enough money for'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[dekken]]
*Finnish: [[kattaa]]
*German: [[abdecken]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[täcka upp för]]
{{bottom}}

'''make a cover'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[coveren]]
*Finnish: [[coveroida]] {{colloquial}}
*German: [[decken]],  [[covern]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[göra en cover på]]
{{bottom}}

'''protect by shooting'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[dekken]]
*Swedish: [[täcka]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
*Esperanto: [[kovri]]
*[[Ido]]: [[kovrar]]
*Indonesian: [[tutup|menutupi]], [[lingkup|melingkupi]]
*Japanese: [[覆う]] ([[おおう]], oou), [[カバー]]する (kabā-suru)
*Russian: [[:ru:покрывать|покрывать]] /pokri'vat'/

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English words from Old French]]
[[Category:Latin derivations]]

[[fa:cover]]
[[fr:cover]]
[[io:cover]]
[[it:cover]]
[[hu:cover]]
[[ru:cover]]
[[fi:cover]]
[[zh:cover]]