==English==
===Etymology===

From [[w:Old English language|Old English]][[category:Old English derivations]] [[cranke]] (meaning akin to [[w:English language|English]][[Category:English derivations]] [[cringe]], [[cringle]], [[crinkle]], and ''to crank'', also, the root meaning, probably, to [[turn]], [[twist]]). See [[Cringe]]. 

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-crank.ogg|Audio (US)}}

=== Noun ===
'''crank''' (''plural'' '''cranks''')
# (''colloquial'') an [[ill-tempered]] or [[nasty]] person
#: ''Billy-Bob is a nasty, old '''crank'''! He chased my cat away''.
# A [[bent]] piece of an [[axle]], or [[shaft]], or an arm attached [[at right angles]] to the end of a shaft or wheel, used to [[impart]] a circular action to a wheel or other mechanical device and create power; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. 
#: ''Use the '''crank''' on the motorcycle and go for a ride''.
# Converting power into motion, as with a [[crankshaft]].
#: ''Yes, a '''crank''' was all it needed to start''.
# ''(US slang)'' [[Methamphetamine]].
#: ''Danny got abscesses from shooting all that bathtub '''crank'''''.
#Any bend, turn, or winding, as of a passage. 
#:''So many turning cranks these have, so many crooks.'' - Spenser.
#A twist or turn in speech; a conceit consisting in a change of the form or meaning of a word. 
#:''Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles.'' - Milton.

=== Transitive verb ===
'''crank''' ('''cranks''' '''cranked''' '''cranking''')
# to turn a '''crank'''
#* '''Crank''' it up!
#* He's been '''cranking''' all day and yet it refuses to '''crank'''.

===Intransitive Verb===
'''crank''' ('''cranks''' '''cranked''' '''cranking''')
#To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and turn. 
#:See how this river comes me cranking in. - [[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]][[Category:Shakespeare Quotes]]
==== Related terms ====
*[[cranky]]
*[[crankcase]]
*[[crankpin]]
*[[crankstart]]
*[[crank axle]] <!--a driving axle formed with a crank or cranks, as in some kinds of locomotives. -->
*[[crank pin]] <!--the cylindrical piece which forms the handle, or to which the connecting rod is attached, at the end of a crank, or between the arms of a [[double crank]].-->
*[[crank shaft]] <!--a shaft bent into a crank, or having a crank fastened to it, by which it drives or is driven.--> 
*[[crank wheel]] <!--a wheel acting as a crank, or having a wrist to which a connecting rod is attached. -->