==English==

===Pronunciation===
*/krēp/, /kriːp/, /kri:p/

===Noun===
{{en-noun|creep|creeps}}
# The movement of something that creeps.
# A gradual change in anything.
## (''publishing'') In sewn books, the tendancy of [[page]]s on the inside of a [[quire]] to stand out farther than those on the outside of it.
## (''materials science'') An increase in [[strain]] with time.
##{{geology}} the [[imperceptible]] [[downslope]] movement of surface [[rock]]
# (''informal'') A annoyingly [[unpleasant]] person.
#: ''Stop following me, you creep!''


====Translations====
'''movement of something that creeps'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kruip]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!--'''gradual change in anything'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}
-->
'''informal: an annoyingly unpleasant person'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[griezel]] {{m}}, [[engerd]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*German: [[Knilch]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{irregverb|'''to creep'''|'''[[creeps]]'''|'''[[crept]]'''|'''[[crept]]'''|'''[[creeping]]'''}}
# ''(transitive):'' To move slowly with the [[abdomen]] close to the ground.
#: ''Lizards and snakes '''crept''' over the ground.''
# ''(transitive):'' Of [[plant]]s, to grow across a surface rather than upwards.
# ''(transitive):'' To move slowly and quietly in a particular direction.
#: ''He tried to '''creep''' past the guard without being seen.''
# ''(transitive):'' To change gradually in a particular direction.
#: ''Prices have been '''creeping''' up all year.''

====Synonyms====
*(''move slowly with the abdomen close to the ground''): [[crawl]]
*(''grow across a surface rather than upwards'')
*(''move slowly and quietly in a particular direction''): [[inch]]
*(''change gradually in a particular direction''): [[inch]]

====Translations====
'''move slowly with the abdomen close to the ground'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[arrossegar-se]]
*Dutch: [[kruipen]]
*Esperanto: [[rampi]]
*Finnish: [[ryömiä]], [[madella]]
*German: [[kriechen]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[strisciare]]
*Japanese: [[這う]] (hau)
*Russian: [[ползти]]
*Spanish: [[arrastrarse]]
{{bottom}}

'''grow across a surface rather than upwards'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kruipen]]
*German: [[kriechen]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[這う]] (hau), [[伝う]] (tsutau)
*Russian: [[стелиться]]
{{bottom}}

'''move slowly and quietly in a particular direction'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kruipen]]
*Finnish: [[hiipiä]]
*German: [[schleichen]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[忍び寄る]] (shinobi-yoru)
*Russian: [[стелиться]]
{{bottom}}

'''change gradually in a particular direction'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[opschuiven]]
*German: [[schleichen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Frisian}}: [[krûpe]]

===Derived terms===
*[[creep up on]]
*[[creepy]]
*[[decrepit]]
*[[function creep]]
*[[give someone the creeps]]

[[fr:creep]]
[[ko:creep]]
[[io:creep]]
[[it:creep]]
[[uk:creep]]
[[zh:creep]]