==English==
===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''cropp'', head or top of a sprout or herb.

===Pronunciation===
*(''[[RP]]''): krŏp, /krɒp/, /<tt>krQp</tt>/
*(''US''): kräp, /krɑp/, /<tt>krAp</tt>/

===Noun===
'''crop''' (''plural'' '''[[crops]]''')

#A plant grown for food.
#The [[harvest]] for a particular year.
#A short [[haircut]].
#A short [[whip]] used by the rider of a horse to encourage it to run faster.
#Part of the [[alimentary tract]] of birds, insects and some other animals that is used to store food temporarily prior to [[digestion]].

====Synonyms====
*(''harvest''): [[harvest]], [[yield]]
*(''whip used on horses''): [[hunting crop]], [[riding crop]], [[whip]], [[bat]]
*(''animal's''): [[craw]] (''in birds'')

====Translations====
'''plant grown for food'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[gewas]] ''n'', [[voedselgewas]] ''n'', [[voedselplant]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[rikoltaĵo]]
*Finnish: [[sato]]
*French: [[recolte]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''harvest'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[oogst]] ''m'', [[opbrengst]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[rikoltaĵo]]
*Finnish: [[sadonkorjuu]]
*French: [[recolte]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''short haircut'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bros]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''whip'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[rijzweepje]] ''n''
*German: [[Gerte]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''part of animal's alimentary tract'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kroep]]
*Esperanto: [[krupo]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Finnish: [[raippa]]: this translates "whip", but does it apply to a riding crop?
*Finnish: [[kupu]]: this translates a bird's crop, but does it apply to other animals' crops too?
*Hebrew: [[יבול]]
*Portuguese: [[shibata]] ''f'': Riding crop, but I'm not sure of the spelling.
*Russian: [[урожай]] /uroZaj/

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|crop||p}}

#To cut (especially hair or an animal's tail or ears) short.
#To remove the outer parts of (a photograph or image) in order to frame the subject better.

====Translations====

'''to cut (hair/tail/ears) short'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[brosknippen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''remove outer parts of (a photograph or image)'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bijknippen]], [[bijsnijden]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Finnish: [[rajata]]: this translated "to cut something", but the sense has now changed; please check whether the translation still applies

===Derived terms===
*[[outcrop]]
*[[crop up]]

===See also===
*[[w:crop_(anatomy)|Wikipedia article on the crop of an animal]]
*[[w:crop_(implement)|Wikipedia article on riding crops]]
*[[w:cropping_(image)|Wikipedia article on cropping images]]

[[it:crop]]
[[ru:crop]]
[[fi:crop]]