==English==
*(''[[RP]]''): /kraʊn/, /<tt>kraUn</tt>/
*(''US''): kroun, /kroʊn/, /<tt>kroUn</tt>/
*{{audio|en-ca-{{PAGENAME}}.ogg|Audio (CA)}}

===Etymology===
From {{L.}} ''[[corona#Latin|corona]]'', wreath

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A reward of victory or a mark of honor.
# A royal, imperial or princely headdress; a [[diadem]].
# A representation of such a headdress, as in heraldry; it may even be that only the image exists, no physical crown, as in the case of the kingdom of Belgium; by analogy such crowns can be awarded to moral persons that don't even have a head, as the mural crown for cities in heraldry
# A [[wreath]] or band for the head.
# Imperial or regal power.
# The topmost part of the head.
# The highest part a hill.
# The top part of a hat.
# The raised centre of a road.
# The highest part of an arch.
# Splendor, finish, culmination.
#: '''''crown''' achievement''
# Any currency (originally) issued by the crown (regal power) and often bearing a crown (headdress)
# Specifically, a former British coin worth five [[shilling]]s.
<!--Disputed: # a [[koruna]], [[kruna]], [[krone]].-->
# The part of a plant where the root and stem meet.
#{{anatomy}} The part of a tooth above the gums.
#(''dentistry'') A [[prothestic]] covering for a tooth.

====Synonyms====
*(''reward of victory or a mark of honor''): [[award]], [[garland]], [[honor]]/[[honour]], [[prize]], [[wreath]]
*(''royal, imperial or princely headdress''): [[coronet]]
*(''representation of such a headdress''): 
*(''wreath or band for the head''): [[garland]], [[wreath]]
*(''imperial or regal power''): [[monarchy]], [[royalty]]
*(''of the head''): [[apex]], [[top]]
*(''of a hill''): [[apex]], [[peak]], [[summit]], [[top]]
*(''centre of a road''): 
*(''highest part of an arch''): 
*(''of a hat''): [[top]]
*(''splendor, finish, culmination''): [[completion]], [[culmination]], [[finish]], [[splendor]]/[[splendour]]
*(''currency''): 
*(''British coin''): 
*(''part of plant''): 
*(''anatomy: part of tooth''): [[corona]]
*(''dentistry: prosthetic covering for a tooth''): 

====Antonyms====
*(''of a hill''): [[bottom]], [[foot]]

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
*[[crown achievement]]
*[[crown colony]]
*[[Crown Court]]
*[[crown estate]]
*[[crown green]]
{{mid2}}
*[[crown lands]]
*[[crown jewels]]
*[[crown prince]]
*[[crown wheel]]
*[[half-crown]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
'''reward of victory or a mark of honor'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''royal, imperial or princely headdress'''
{{top}}
*French: [[couronne]] {{f}}
*German: [[Krone]] {{f}}
*Greek, Modern: [[στέμμα]] (stémma) {{n}}, [[κορώνα]] (koróna) {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[corona#Italian|corona]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[coroa]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[corona#Spanish|corona]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''representation of such a headdress'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''wreath or band for the head'''
{{top}}
*French: [[couronne]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''imperial or regal power'''
{{top}}
*French: [[couronne]] {{f}}
*German: [[Krone]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''of the head'''
{{top}}
*French: [[sommet]] {{m}}
*Greek, Modern: [[κορυφή]] (koryfí) {{f}}, [[κορφή]] (korfí) {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[cocuzzolo]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[topo#Portuguese|topo]] {{m}}, [[alta#Portuguese|alta]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[coronilla]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''of a hill'''
{{top}}
*French: [[sommet]] {{m}}, [[faîte]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[cima]] {{f}}, [[vetta]] {{f}}, [[cocuzzolo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[cume]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[cumbre]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''centre of a road'''
{{top}}
*French: [[milieu]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[centro]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''highest part of an arch'''
{{top}}
*French: [[clef]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[chiave di volta]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''of a hat'''
{{top}}
*French: [[fond#French|fond]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[copa#Portuguese|copa]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''splendor, finish, culmination'''
{{top}}
*French: [[couronnement]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''any currency (originally) issued by the crown (regal power) and often bearing a crown (headdress)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''specifically, a former British coin worth five shillings'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''part of a plant where the root and stem meet'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''anatomy: part of tooth'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[corona#Italian|corona]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''dentistry: prosthetic covering for a tooth'''
{{top}}
*French: [[couronne]] {{f}}
*Greek, Modern: [[κορώνα]] (koróna) {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[capsula]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
*{{ttbc|Chinese Characters}}: [[冠]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[冠]]
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[koruna]] {{f}} (1, 2, 5, 7)
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[kroon]] {{f}} (2, 5, 6), [[bekroning]] {{f}} (1), [[top]] {{m}} (3), [[hoogste punt]] {{n}} (3), [[hoofdband]] {{m}} (4)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[王冠]]
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[크라운]]
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[corona#Latin|corona]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[korona]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[крона]] {{f}} (krona)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[koruna]] {{f}} (1, 2, 5, 7)
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[krona]] {{f}} (2, 5, 6, 7)

===Adjective===
'''crown'''

# Of, related to, or pertaining to a crown.
#: '''''crown''' prince''

====Translations====
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[kroon-]], [[kroons-]]
* French : [[- de la couronne]] {{f}}
* German : [[kronen-]] ''w''
{{mid}}
* Slovak: [[korunný]] {{m}}, [[korunná]] {{f}}, [[korunné]] {{n}}
* Slovene: [[kronski]] {{m}}, [[kronska]] {{f}}, [[kronsko]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|crown||}}

# To place a crown on the head of.
# To formally declare (someone) a [[king]] or [[emperor]].
# To declare (someone) a winner.
<!--This does not have the form of a definition of a verb:
# During the birth process, when the crown of the baby's head first appears.
-->

====Translations====
'''to place a crown on the head of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kronen]]
*French: [[couronner]]
*German: [[krönen]]
*Latin: [[coronare]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[coroar]]
*Slovak: [[korunovať]]
*Slovene: [[kronati]], [[okronati]]
*Spanish: [[coronar]]
{{bottom}}

'''to formally declare one a king or emperor'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kronen]], [[koning kronen]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[couronner]]
{{bottom}}

'''declare one a winner'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bekronen]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[couronner]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[crowned]]
<!--move to "crowning":
*[[crowning achievement]]
*[[crowning glory]]-->

===See also===
*[[coronation]]

[[Category:Currency]]
[[et:crown]]
[[fr:crown]]
[[io:crown]]
[[it:crown]]
[[hu:crown]]
[[nl:crown]]
[[ta:crown]]
[[zh:crown]]