==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[cruschen]], [[crousshen]]'', {{OF.}} ''[[cruisir]], [[croissir]]'', from {{LL.}} ''[[cruscire]]'', probably of Germanic origin, from a derivative of the word seen in {{Goth.}} ''[[kruistan]]'' to gnash; akin to {{Sw.}} ''[[krysta]]'' to squeeze, {{Dan.}} ''[[kryste]]'', {{Icel.}} ''[[kreysta]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-crush.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌʃ|-ʌʃ]]

===Noun===
'''crush'''  (''plural:'' '''[[crushes]]''')

# A violent collision or compression; a [[crash]]; [[destruction]]; [[ruin]].
# Violent [[pressure]], as of a crowd; a crowd which produced uncomfortable pressure; as, a crush at a peception.
# A short-lived and [[unrequited]] [[love]] or [[infatuation]]; the object of this infatuation.
#*'''2004:''' [[w: Chris Wallace (journalist)|Chris Wallace]], ''Character:  Profiles in Presidential Courage''
#*:It had taken nine years from the evening that [[w:Harry Truman|Truman]] first showed up with a pie plate at her mother's door, but his dogged perseverance eventually won him the hand of his boyhood Sunday school '''crush'''.
# A [[chute]] or [[corridor]] in a cattle yard.

====Translations====
;A violent collision or compression (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[murskaus]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[choque]] {{m}}, [[colisão]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;Violent pressure, as of a crowd (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[puristus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A short-lived and unrequited love or infatuation (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ihastus]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: to have a crush = estar [[embobado]], estar [[colado]], estar [[encaprichado]]
{{bottom}}

;A chute or corridor in a cattle yard (4)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[hancur|menghancurkan]], [[remuk|meremukkan]], [[lumat|melumat]], [[tumbuk|menumbuk]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[砕く]] ([[くだく]], kudaku), [[破壊]]する ([[はかい]]する, hakai-suru)

===Verb===
{{en-verb|crush|es}}

# To [[press]] or [[bruise]] between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force together into a mass; as, to crush grapes.
#:''Ye shall not offer unto the Lord that which is bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut. --Lev. xxii.''
# To reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding; to comminute; as, to crush quartz.
# To [[overwhelm]] by pressure or weight; to [[beat]] or [[force down]], as by an incumbent weight.
# To [[oppress]] or [[burden]] grievously.
# To [[overcome]] completely; to subdue totally.
# To [[crush out]]
#:To force out or separateby pressure, as juice from grapes.
# {{intransitive}} To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller compass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily.
# To feel infatuation with or unrequited love for.
#: ''She's crushing on him.''

====Translations====
;To press or bruise between two hard bodies (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[murskata]], [[musertaa]], [[rusentaa]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[amassar]]
{{bottom}}

;To reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[jauhaa]], [[pirstoa]], [[hienontaa]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[esmigalhar]], [[pulverizar]], [[triturar]]
{{bottom}}

;To overwhelm by pressure or weight (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[murskata]], [[musertaa]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[esmagar]]
{{bottom}}

;To oppress or burden grievously (4)
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[dominar]], [[subjugar]], [[vencer]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To overcome completely (5)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[murskata]], [[nujertaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To crush out (6)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[musertaa]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[espremer]]
{{bottom}}

;To be or become broken down or in (7)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[murskautua]], [[musertua]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[moer]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[crush hat]]
*[[crush room]]

{{webster}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:English verbs that lack inflection template]]

[[ar:crush]]
[[fr:crush]]
[[hy:crush]]
[[io:crush]]
[[it:crush]]
[[hu:crush]]
[[simple:crush]]
[[fi:crush]]
[[vi:crush]]
[[zh:crush]]