==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[cuppe]]'', {{LL.}} ''[[cuppa]]'', {{L.}} ''[[cupa]]'' "tub," , heb. [[כף]] '''caph''' "cup, cupped hands" from PIE *keup

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-cup.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌp|-ʌp]]
===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}
# A concave vessel for holding liquid, generally adorned with either a handle or a stem (''confer'' [[goblet]], [[glass]].)
#: ''Pour the wine into the '''cup'''.''
# A US unit of liquid measure equal to 8 fluid ounces, 1/16 of a US gallon, or 236.5882365 ml.
# A trophy in the shape of an oversized cup.
#: ''The World '''Cup''' is awarded to the winner of a quadrennial football tournament.''
# A contest for which a cup is awarded.
#: ''The World '''Cup''' is the world's most widely watched sporting event.''
# (''golf'') A cup-shaped object placed in the target hole.
#: ''The ball just misses the '''cup'''.''
# A rigid concave protective covering for the male genitalia.
#: ''Players of contact sports are advised to wear a '''cup'''.''
# One of the two parts of a brassiere which each cover a breast.
#: ''The '''cups''' are made of a particularly uncomfortable material.''
# (''mathematics'') The symbol <math>\cup</math> denoting union and similar operations (''confer'' [[cap]].)
# A suit of the minor arcana in tarot, or one of the cards from the suit.
# ([[ultimate frisbee]]) A [[defense|defensive]] style characterized by a three [[player]] near [[defense]] ''cupping'' the [[thrower]]; ''or'' those three players.
# A flexible concave membrane used to temporarily attach a handle or hook to a flat surface by means of suction (suction cup.)

====Translations====
*Albanian: [[filxhan]] ''m''
*Catalan: [[tassa]] ''f''
*CJKV Characters: [[甌]], [[瓯]]
*Croatian: [[šalica]] ''f''
*Czech: [[šalek]] ''m'', [[hrnek]] {{m}} (1), [[pohár]] {{m}} (3,4), [[košíček]] {{m}} (7)
*Esperanto: [[taso]]
*French: [[tasse]] {{f}} (1), [[coupe]] {{f}} (3,4), [[bonnet]] {{m}} (7)
*German: [[Tasse]] {{f}} (1), [[Becher]] {{m}} (1), Cup {{m}} (3/4), [[Pokal]] {{m}} (3/4)
*Hungarian: [[csésze]]
*Japanese: [[カップ]] (1,2,3,4,7) 
*Latin: [[calix]], [[calicis]]
*Lithuanian: [[puodukas]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[caneca]] {{f}}, [[caneco]] {{m}}, [[taça]] {{f}}, [[copa]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[ceaşcă]] ''f'', [[cană]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[taza]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[kopp]] {{c}} (1,5), [[kaffekopp]] {{c}} approx 1.5&nbsp;dl (abbreviation ''kkp''&nbsp;) or [[tekopp]] {{c}} approx 2.5&nbsp;dl (abbreviation ''tkp''&nbsp;) (2), [[pokal]] {{c}} (3), [[kupa]] {{c}} (7)

===Transitive Verb===
'''to cup''' ([[cups]], [[cupped]], [[cupping]])

# To form into the shape of a cup, particularly of the hands
#: ''Cup your hands and I'll pour some rice into them.''
# To hold something in cupped hands
#: ''He cupped the ball carefully in his hands.''

====Translations====
*Swedish: [[kupa]], [[kupade]], [[kupat]], [[kupande]] (1) [[hålla]], [[höll]], [[hållit]], [[hållande]] (2) (''Note:''&nbsp; Can mean holding in any manner, not only in cupped hands.)

===Related Terms===
* [[world cup]]
* [[cupcake]]
* [[cup size]]
* [[egg cup]]
* [[teacup]]

===See also===
*[[mug]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----

==Albanian==
===Adjective===
'''cup'''

# [[odd]] (not even)

====Synonym====
* ''[[tek]]''

===Noun===
'''cup''' (a variant of ''[[sup]]'')

# [[shoulder]]

[[ang:cup]]
[[da:cup]]
[[el:cup]]
[[fa:cup]]
[[fr:cup]]
[[gl:cup]]
[[ko:cup]]
[[io:cup]]
[[it:cup]]
[[hu:cup]]
[[simple:cup]]
[[fi:cup]]
[[ta:cup]]
[[zh:cup]]