==English==

===Adjective===
'''curve'''

# (''obsolete'') Bent without angles; crooked; curved.
#:''a curve line''
#:''a curve surface''

====Translations====
''See'' '''[[crooked]]''' ''and'' '''[[curved]]'''

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A gentle [[bend]], such as in a road.
# A figure containing no [[straight]] portions and no [[angle]]s.
# {{analyticgeom}}  A [[continuous map]] from a one-[[dimensional]] [[space]] to a multidimensional space.
# {{geometry}} A one-dimensional figure of [[non-zero]] length; the [[graph]] of a continuous map from a one-dimensional space.
# {{alggeom}} An [[algebraic curve]]; a [[polynomial]] [[relation]] of the planar coordinates.
# {{topology}} A one-dimensional [[continuum]].
# (''informal, usually in plural'' '''curves''') The attractive shape of a woman's body.

====Derived terms====
{{top2}}
*[[algebraic curve]]
*[[Bézier curve]]
*[[closed curve]]
*[[cosine curve]]
*[[dragon curve]]
*[[elliptic curve]]
*[[Lissajous curve]]
*[[Jordan curve]]
{{mid2}}
*[[open curve]]
*[[pedal curve]]
*[[plane curve]]
*[[pursuit curve]]
*[[simple curve]]
*[[sine curve]]
*[[space curve]]
*[[spherical curve]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
'''gentle bend'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: revolt, ''m''
*Dutch: [[curve]] ''f'', [[kromming]] ''f'', [[bocht]] ''m'' (''road'')
*Esperanto: [[kurbo]], [[kurbiĝo]], [[sinuo]], [[ĝirejo]], [[vojturno]] (''road'')
*Finnish: [[kaarre]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[courbe]] ''f''
*Italian: [[curva]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[kurva]] ''c''
*Russian: [[изгиб]] ''m'', [[кривая]] ''f'', [[поворот]] ''m''
*[[Telugu]]: [[వంపు]] (vampu)
{{bottom}}

'''geometry: one-dimensional figure'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: corba, f
*Dutch: [[curve]] ''f'', [[kromme]] ''f''
*Esperanto: [[kurbo]]
*Finnish: [[kaari]], [[käyrä]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[courbe]] ''f''
*Slovene: [[krivulja]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[kurva]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''algebraic curve'''
''See'' '''[[algebraic curve]]'''

'''informal: usually in plural: attractive features of a woman'''
'''informal: attractive shape of a woman's body'''
<!--Note: put INFORMAL translations in this table, where these exist-->
{{top}}
*Catalan:  corbes, ''f'', ''pl''
*Dutch: [[rondingen]] ''m, pl'', [[figuur]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[kurva]] ''c'' (''usually plural''), [[figur]] ''c'' (''usually singular'')
*Russian: [[изгибы]] ''plural''
*[[Telugu]]: [[వంపులు]] (vampulu), [[వొంపులు]] (vompulu)
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: (in sense "shape of a woman's body" - is there something missing here?) [[kurvi]] (''usually plural'' kurvit),

===Transitive Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|curv|e}}

# To bend; to crook.
#:''to curve a line''
#:''to curve a pipe''
# To cause to swerve from a straight course.
#:''to curve a ball in pitching it''

====Translations====

'''bend, crook'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[krommen]], [[plooien]] (''pipe''), [[buigen]]
*Finnish: [[käyristää]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[böja]], [[kröka]]
*Russian: [[изгибать]], [[гнуть]]
{{bottom}}

'''cause to swerve from a straight course'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|curv|e}}

# To bend or turn gradually from a given direction.
#:''the road curves to the right''

====Translations====

'''bend or turn gradually from a given direction'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afbuigen]]
*Finnish: [[kaartaa]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[böja]] (sig)
*Russian: [[изгибаться]], [[гнуться]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[kurva]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[cuar]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[曲線]] ([[きょくせん]], kyokusen)

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:curve]]
[[it:curve]]
[[hu:curve]]
[[nl:curve]]
[[pl:curve]]
[[fi:curve]]
[[zh:curve]]