==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/kʌstəm/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

#Frequent [[repetition]] of the same [[act]]; way of acting common to many; [[ordinary]] manner; [[habitual]] [[practice]]; [[usage]]; method of doing or living.
#:*And teach '''customs''' which are not lawful. ''Acts xvi. 21''.
#:*Moved beyond his '''custom''', Gama said. ''[[Tennyson]]''.
#:*A '''custom''' More [[honored]] in the breach than the observance. ''[[Shakespeare]]''
#[[Habitual]] buying of goods; practice of frequenting, as a shop, manufactory, etc., for making purchases or giving orders; business support.
#*Let him have your '''custom''', but not your votes. ''[[Addison]]''.
# {{cattag|law}} Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, and resting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, and Prescription. 
#*Usage is a fact. '''Custom''' is a law. There can be no '''custom''' without usage, though there may be usage without '''custom'''. ''[[Wharton]]''.
# {{cattag|ojbsolete}} Familiar acquaintance; familiarity.
#*Age can not wither her, nor '''custom''' stale Her infinite variety. ''[[Shakespeare]]''
#The customary [[toll]], [[tax]], or [[tribute]].
#*Render, therefore, to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; '''custom''' to whom '''custom'''. ''Rom. xiii. 7''.
# {{plurale tantum}} Duties or tolls imposed by law on commodities, imported or exported.

====Synonyms====
*[[Practice]]
*[[Fashion]]
*[[Habit]]
*[[Usage]]

====Derived terms====
*[[custom made]]

===Adjective===
# made in a different way from usual, specially to fit one's needs
#:''My feet are as big as powerboats, so I need '''custom''' shoes.''

===Verb===
# {{cattag|obsolete}} {{transitive}} To make familiar; to [[accustom]].
# {{cattag|obsolete}} {{transitive}} To supply with [[customers]].
# {{cattag|obsolete}} {{transitive}} To pay the customs of.
# {{cattag|obsolete}} {{intransitive}} To have a custom.
#:*On a bridge he '''custometh''' to fight. ''[[Spenser]]''.
{{webster}}

[[fr:custom]]
[[io:custom]]
[[it:custom]]
[[hu:custom]]
[[pl:custom]]
[[ru:custom]]
[[simple:custom]]
[[zh:custom]]