==English==

{{rank|real|eye|sun|496|cut|everything|six|comes}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{SAMPA|/"kVt/}}
*{{IPA|/kʌt/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌt|-ʌt]]

===Verb===
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
{{en-verb|cuts|cutting|cut}}

# To [[perform]] an [[incision]] with for example a [[knife]] ("I '''cut''' the skin on my arm.")
# To [[separate]] from [[prior]] [[association]] ("Travis was '''cut''' from the team."); to [[edit]] a portion of a recording out.
#''(automotive):'' to rudely interpose one's vehicle with disregard for safety ("That bastard '''cut''' me off!")
# Instruction to stop doing something ("'''Cut''' it out!")
# {{Cricket}} To play a cut shot.
# {{cricket}} To make the ball spin sideways by running his [[finger]]s down the side of the ball as he bowls it.
# To lower the price of an item.  ("We've '''cut''' our prices again.")
# To lower the rate of pay.  ("I'm sorry, but we have to '''cut''' your salary.")
# To divide with a knife or sharp instrument.  ("Would you please '''cut''' the cake?")
# To form or shape by cutting.  ("I '''cut''' the stone to create this fine statue.")
#''(Geometry)'': To intersect; to cross, as one line '''cuts''' across another.
# To skip a class. (Usually as "cut-out of".)  ("I '''cut''' fifth period to hang out with Angela.")
# To change direction suddenly (in a [[route]]); to make a sudden [[sprint]] in order to [[evade]] the [[defense]]
#(''filmmaking'') To [[cease]] [[record]]ing activities.

====Related terms====
{{top2}}
*[[cut for one’s size]]
*[[cut one's losses]]
*[[cut down]]
*[[cut off]]
*[[cut out]]
{{mid2}}
*[[cutting edge]]
*[[cutting remark]]
*[[cut up]]
*[[undercut]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[pret]]
*Bulgarian: [[сека]]
*Catalan: [[tallar]]
*Croatian: [[rezati]]
*Dutch: [[snijden]], [[afsnijden]], [[knippen]]
*Danish:
** 1, 2, 5, 6: [[skære]] (''knife, bat''), [[snitte]] (''knife, bat''), [[klippe]] (''scissors''), [[hugge]] (''axe, chisel''), [[save]] (''saw'').
** 2: [[udvise]]/[[bortvise]] (from a team), [[skære]]/[[snitte]]/[[klippe]]/[[hugge]]/[[save]] '''[[af]]'''.
** 3: [[afvise]].
** 4: Hold op!, Hold så op, med det!. 
** 7, 6: [[nedsætte]], [[sænke]] (''money'')
** 9: [[skære]]/[[snitte]]/[[klippe]]/[[hugge]]/[[save]] '''[[ud]]'''.
** 10: [[skære]]/[[snitte]]/[[klippe]]/[[hugge]]/[[save]]/[[file]] 

(''file''), [[Slibe]] (''by stone or sandpaper'') '''[[ud]]/[[til]]'''.
** 11: [[skære]], [[krydse]] (''Geometry'')
** 13: [[afbryde]].
{{mid}}
*Esperanto: [[tranĉi]]
*Finnish: [[leikata]] (1), [[eristää]] (2), [[poistaa]] (2)
*French: [[couper]]
*German: [[schneiden]]
*[[Guwal]]: [[nudin]], [[gunban]], [[banyin]]
*Hungarian: [[vág]]
*Indonesian: [[potong]], [[kerat]], [[iris]]
*Italian: [[tagliare]]
*[[Jalnguy]]: [[jalnggan]], [[bubaman]]
*Japanese: [[切る]] ([[きる]], kiru)
*Portugues: cortar
*Romanian: [[tăia]], [[croi]]
*Serbian: [[1,2,3,9,10,11. iseći]], [[4. prestani!]], [[7,8. spustiti, sniziti]], [[12. pobeći]], [[14. rez]]
*Spanish: [[cortar]]
*Swedish: [[skära]] (1), [[klippa]] (1)
*Telugu: [[కోయు]] (kOyu) (1,9), [[తెంచు]] (teMchu)(2), [[కోత వేయు]] (kOta vEyu) (7,8), [[ఖండించుకొను]] (khaMDiMchukonu)(11)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An opening resulting from cutting.
#:''Look at this '''cut''' on my finger!''
# The act of [[cutting]].
#:''He made a fine '''cut''' with his sword.''
# The [[result]] of cutting.
#:''He didn't make the '''cut'''.''
# {{Cricket}} A [[batsman]]'s shot played with a [[swing]]ing motion of the bat, to hit the ball [[backward]] of [[point]].
# {{Cricket}} [[Sideways]] [[movement]] of the ball through the [[air]] caused by a [[fast bowler]] [[impart]]ing [[spin]] to the ball.
# The act or right of dividing a deck of playing cards.
#:''Whose '''cut''' is it?''
# The manner or style a garment is fasioned in.
#:''I like the '''cut''' of that suit.''
# A lower than normal rate.
#:''These hand-crafted items are yours for the '''cut'''-rate price of $19.99.''
# A [[slab]], especially of meat.
#:''That’s our finest '''cut''' of meat.''
# {{fencing}} An attack made with a chopping motion of the blade, landing with its edge or point.
#A deliberate [[snub]], typically a refusal to return a [[bow]] or other acknowledgement of acquaintance.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Danish: [[snit]] (1,2,3,4,5,7), [[hug]] (1,2), tage af (6), [[skår]] (''glass, pottery''), [[billiger]] (8). [[spor]], [[mærke]], [[risse]], [[fure]], [[rille]].
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[taglio]].
*Romanian: [[tăietură]]
*Telugu: [[కోత]] (kOta), [[గాటు]] (gaaTu)
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''cut'''

# {{Cricket}} Of a shot played with a [[horizontal]] bat to hit the ball backward of point.
# {{bodybuilding}} Having muscular [[definition]] in which individual groups of [[muscle]] fibers stand out among larger muscles.
# {{colloquial}} [[Circumcised]].

====Translations====
*German: [[beschnitten]] (3)
----
==Kiput==
===Etymology===
From Proto-North Sarawak *''likud'', from Proto-Malayo-Polynesian *''likuj''.
===Noun===
'''cut'''

# [[back]] (of the body)
[[Category:Kiput nouns]]
[[Category:kyi:Anatomy]]
[[ar:cut]]
[[es:cut]]
[[fr:cut]]
[[gl:cut]]
[[ko:cut]]
[[hy:cut]]
[[io:cut]]
[[it:cut]]
[[hu:cut]]
[[ja:cut]]
[[pt:cut]]
[[simple:cut]]
[[fi:cut]]
[[ta:cut]]
[[uk:cut]]
[[zh:cut]]