A cutchery is a hall used for business, political or social assemblies, such as a magistrate's court or public offices.  This is a term widely used in India.  

'''Alternate spellings:''' 

cutcherry
katcheri 
katcherry
kacheri

"I walked through the ruins of the Fort of Bangalore ... it is not without some degree of magnificence. On the upper storey it contains four halls, each comprising two balconies of state for the prince, and each balcony faces a different Cutchery, or court for giving audience. No person, except a few trusty guards, were admitted into the hall with the Sultan: but at each end of the court was erected a balcony for the officers of the highest rank." Francis Buchanan, ''A Journey from Madras through the countries of Mysore, Cananara and Malabar''; London, 1807. 
-- http://www.nationalgalleries.org/tipu/india54.htm

'''Alernate meanings:'''
 
(1) a musical performance or style

"The concert begins promptly and the musician starts with the Sahana Varnam and follows the brisk Varnam with Gajananayudam in Chakravaham. The cutchery was already off to a good start. After one more kriti, he begins Anandhabhairavi raga alapana."  
--  http://www.chennaionline.com/columns/variety/2006/04indianmusic.asp

"Would you be able to educate your audience back home, say, by comparing the classical music concerto (Mozart) to our own 'cutchery?'"  ''The Hindu'' (National Edition), Sunday, August 26, 1990, PERFORMING ARTS
-- http://home.planet.nl/~pesch082/htmlpag/E/Interview_PremaNandakumar.html

(2) a military division or large brigade: "In Tipu Sultan's army, approximately 5,600 men formed from 4 cushoons."
-- http://www.lib.mq.edu.au/digital/seringapatam/terminology.html 

(3) a spice, kentjoer.