==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-obfuscated.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===

# To ascertain the true definition of the verb obfuscate, one must search deep into the pool of linguistic anomalies that we refer to colloquially as the English language (or alternatively just English, if we wish to be concise). This language, although used by millions of people has no one definitive form (although traditionally, the original English spoken natively in the British Isles (otherwise known as Great Britain and The United Kingdom even though these terms technically refer to different entities) could be considered authoritative. However, there are many different [[dialects]] spoken throughout these lands, leading to differing of opinion as to the true definition and acceptable usage of any given word or phrase. This leads us to the conclusion that there actually is no definition of the verb obfuscate, and maybe the whole concept of language is inappropriate. Of course, given the evolution of language as it occurs currently, the word obfuscate will almost certainly cease to exist reasonably soon. That said, we could advance the evolution of language now, by refusing to accept this word as part of the English language.
#: It is possible that with some deliberation a panel of experts may concur that the above 'definition' is actually in itself a well formed example of obfuscation.
# To deliberately make more confusing in order to conceal the truth.
#: ''Before leaving the scene, the murderer set a fire to '''obfuscate''' any evidence of his or her identity.''
# (''computing'') To alter code while preserving its behavior but conceal its structure and intent.
#: ''We need to '''obfuscate''' these classes before we ship the final release.''

===Related Terms===
*[[obfuscation]]
*[[obfuscatory]]

===Synonyms===
*[[confuse]]
*[[muddle]]

===Antonyms===
*[[explain]]
*[[simplify]]

===Translations===
*Portuguese: [[ofuscar]]

[[it:obfuscate]]
[[Category:English nouns]]