=={{en}}==
===Ajective===
(Ob*lique") [F., fr. L. ''obliquus''; ob (see Ob-) + liquis ''oblique''; cf. licinus bent upward, Gr slanting.] [Written also ''oblike''.]
#Not erect or perpendicular; neither parallel to, nor at right angles from, the base; slanting; inclined.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*It has a direction oblique to that of the former motion. - Cheyne.
#Not straightforward; indirect; obscure; hence, disingenuous; underhand; perverse; sinister.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The love we bear our friends . . . Hath in it certain ''oblique'' ends. - Drayton.
#:*This mode of ''oblique'' research, when a more direct one is denied, we find to be the only one in our power. - ''De Quincey.''
#:*Then would be closed the restless, ''oblique'' eye. <br /> That looks for evil, like a treacherous spy. - ''Wordworth.''
#Not direct in descent; not following the line of father and son; collateral.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*His natural affection in a direct line was strong, in an oblique but weak. - ''Baker.''


==Noun==
(Ob*lique"), (''Geom.'') 
#An oblique line.

==Verb==
(Ob*lique"), '''intransitive''' [imp. & p. p. ''Obliqued''; p. pr. & vb. n. ''Obliquing.'']
#To deviate from a perpendicular line; to move in an oblique direction.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Projecting his person towards it in a line which ''obliqued'' from the bottom of his spine. - ''Sir. W. Scott.''
#(''Mil.'') To march in a direction oblique to the line of the column or platoon; — formerly accomplished by ''oblique'' steps, now by direct steps, the men half- facing either to the right or left.


===See also===
*[[oblique angle]]
*[[oblique ascension]]
*[[oblique arch]] 
*[[oblique bridge]]
*[[oblique case]] 
*[[oblique circle]]
*[[oblique fire]]  
*[[oblique flank]] 
*[[oblique leaf]]
*[[oblique line]]  
*[[oblique motion]]
*[[oblique muscle]]
*[[oblique narration]]
*[[oblique planes]]
*[[oblique sailing]] 
*[[oblique speech]] 
*[[oblique sphere]]
*[[oblique step]] 
*[[oblique system of coordinates]]