==English==
===Pronunciation=== 
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˈɒbsəliːt/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: (''UK'') /'Qbs@li:t/, (''US'') /'Abs@li:t/

===Adjective===
'''obsolete''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''more obsolete''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''most obsolete''')

#No longer in use; gone into disuse; disused or neglected (often by preference for something newer, which replaces the subject). Often applied to words, writings, or observances.
#(''biology'') Imperfectly developed; not very distinct; obscure; rudimental; abortive.
#(''computer hardware or software'') No longer used, developed, sold, or supported -- primarily due to a preferred or recommended replacement. The connotation is that the subject is so old that it is essentially worthless.

==== Synonyms ====
*(shared meaning: ''no longer in use''): [[ancient]], [[antiquated]], [[antique]], [[disused]], [[neglected]], [[old]], [[old-fashioned]]

==== Translations ====

meaning: '''no longer in use'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[verouderd]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[vanhentunut]]
|}
|}

{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Intransitive verb===
'''to obsolete''' (''[[present participle]]'' '''obsoleting''', ''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''obsoleted''')

# (active) To perform some action that causes, or attempts to cause, the subject to become obsolete. 
Often used in technical fields (e.g. computing) to indicate an effort to remove or replace something. 
"<i>This software component has been obsoleted.</i>"; "<i>We are in the process of obsoleting this product.</i>"
Similar to [[deprecated]] (jargon).

===Related terms===
*[[obsolescence]]
*[[obsolescent]]

===See also===
*[[archaic]]

[[pl:Obsolete]]