==English==

===Proper noun===
'''Occitan'''

# Romance language spoken in some parts of [[France]] (particularly the south), [[Spain]] and [[Italy]].

Not to be confused with Provencal, Occitan is a Romance Language that was spoken by all of South of France before the Isle-de-France dialect became the official language of France. There are 7 recognised dialects of Occitan, which still has 2 million speakers throughout southern france. The language was threatened by educational reforms which meant all Children where instructed in French. Thus Occitan became a spoken language , and after some failed attempts to reintroduce Occitan into schools, the language lives on in rural communities albeit with no status recognised by the government.

====Translations====
*[[w:Afrikaans language|Afrikaans]]: [[Occitaans]]?, [[Okkitaans]]?
*[[w:Amharic language|Amharic]]: [[ኦኪታንኛ]]
*Arabic: [[روفنسالية]]
*[[w:Basque language|Basque]]: [[Okzitaniera]]
*[[Belarusian]]: [[Правансальскай]], [[Правансальская]]
*[[w:Breton language|Breton]]: [[Okitaneg]]
*[[w:Bulgarian language|Bulgarian]]: [[Октански]]
*[[w:Catalan language|Catalan]]: [[occità]] {{m}}, [[occitana]] {{f}}
*[[Cherokee]]: [[ᎣᎩᏔᏂ]]
*[[w:Chinese language|Chinese]]: [[欧西坦语]]
*Czech: [[Okcitánština]], [[Okcitánský]]
*Danish: [[Occitansk]]
*English: [[Occitan]]
*Estonian: [[Provansi]]
*Finnish: [[oksitaani]]
*French: [[occitan]] {{m}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[Oksitaansk]]
*[[w:Galician|Galician]]: [[Occitano]]
*German: [[Okzitanisch]]
*[[w:Greek language|Greek]]<!-- Please note that this makes sense, so that Greek (Modern) and Greek (Ancient) are both listed under 'G' -->: [[Οσιτανικά]]
*[[w:Hebrew language|Hebrew]]: [[אוקיטן]]
*Hungarian: [[Okcitán]]
*Indonesian: [[Oksitan]]
*Irish: [[Ocsatánais]]
*Italian: [[Occitano]]
*Japanese: [[オック語]]
*Korean: [[오크어]]
*[[w:Latvian language|Latvian]]: [[Ocitāņu]]
*[[w:Lithuanian language|Lithuanian]]: [[Provansalų]]
*[[Marathi]]: [[ऑक्सिटॅन]]
*[[Nepali]]: [[अक्सिटन]]
*[[w:Occitan language|Occitan]]: [[occitan]]
*Polish: [[okcytański]], [[prowansalski]]
*Portuguese: [[occitano]]
*Russian: [[Окситанский]]
*Slovak: [[Occitánsky]]
*[[Slovene]]: [[Ocitanščina]]
*Spanish: [[occitano]] {{m}}, [[occitana]] {{f}}
*[[w:Swahili language|Swahili]]: [[Kiositani]]
*Swedish: [[Occitanska]]
*[[w:Thai language|Thai]]: [[ภาษาออกซิตัน]]
*[[w:Urdu language|Urdu]]: [[آکيٹاني]]
*[[w:Walloon language|Walloon]]: [[Occitan]]
*[[w:Welsh language|Welsh]]: [[Ocitan]]

----

==Occitan==
===Proper noun===
'''occitan'''

#Language spoken in some parts of France (particularly the south), Spain and Italy.

==French==
===Noun===
'''occitan'''

{{m}}
#Language spoken in some parts of France (particularly the south), Spain and Italy.

===Adjective===
'''occitan'''

# Of or pertaining to Occitan (the region or the language).

==External links==
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Occitan-english/ Occitan - English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster's Dictionary] - the Rosetta Edition.

[[fr:occitan]]
[[nl:Occitan]]
[[hi:Occitan]]