==English==

===Etymology===
The original spelling of the word was “octotherp” and it is another name for the # sign. The word was coined in 1964 by Lauren Asplund in AT&T’s Data Communications Planning Department and Howard Eby in AT&T’s Engineering Department. They based the “octo” portion of the word on the eight points of the symbol and then chose “therp” just because it sounded Greek and went well with “octo”.  
	The name was coined in connection with a project to develop the use of the Touchtone telephone as a data input device. The capability was developed using a specially built Touchtone telephone that had 12 instead of 10 buttons. The two extra buttons were to be used as data control characters and were labeled with a star and a diamond. The concept was first demonstrated at the American Bankers Association convention in 1963. The bankers received the concept enthusiastically because the control keys make it possible for them to try out on-line banking systems. Shortly after this AT&T decided to produce only 12 button telephones from then on. 
For widespread use, however, the star and diamond symbols were impractical because they did not appear on standard typewriter keyboards and that made preparing printed instructions, advertising, etc. difficult. As a result it was decided to use the asterisk in place of the star and the pound sign or number sign in place of the diamond. However, because there was no industry-wide standard name for the pound sign or the number sign, Asplund and Eby created the name “octotherp”. Unfortunately the new name did not receive wide acceptance and the names of pound sign or number sign continued in general use. 

Origin uncertain; reportedly a jocular coinage by Bell Labs supervisor Don Macpherson in the early 1960s, from ''[[octo-]]'' (with reference to the eight points) + ''-thorpe'' (after 1912 Olympic medalist Jim Thorpe, in whom Macpherson had some interest).  The story is disputed by some etymologists.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/'ɒktəʊθɔ:p/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# (''mainly US'') A name for the hash or square symbol ('''#'''), used mainly in telephony and computing
#*'''2004''': Strings are enclosed in double quotation marks, numbers are not enclosed in anything, and dates and Boolean values are enclosed between '''octothorpe''' (#) characters. — Andrew Pitonyak, ''Openoffice.Org Macros Explained'' (Hentzenwerke 2004, p. 139)

===Synonyms and alternative names for the same symbol===

See [[wikipedia:Number sign]] for a list of alternative names, such as ''hash'', ''octothorn'' and ''pound sign''.