==English==

{{rank|N/A|N/A|the|2|of|and|to|in}}

===Pronunciation===
*(''stressed''): ŏv, /ɒv/, /Qv/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɒv|Rhymes: -ɒv]]
*{{audio|en-us-of.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*(''unstressed''): əv, /əv/, /@v/
*{{audio|en-us-piece_of_cake.ogg|Audio (US)}}, unstressed, as part of the expression [[piece of cake]]
<!-- unstressed syllables can't carry a rhyme -->

===Preposition===
'''of'''

<!-- Please think twice before trimming down the list of examples.  I'm trying to avoid a huge list of nearly similar senses and instead directly illustrate various constructions that might not be obvious to a non-native speaker.  See the talk page for a more detailed (but still incomplete) breakdown --dmh -->
# Belonging to or associated with.  When applied to a person or persons, the possessive is generally used.
#: ''The properties of this substance are interesting.'' <!-- Belonging to (better example?) -->
#: ''I could hear the sounds of heavy machinery and of workers.'' <!-- Associated with -->
#: ''That person is a friend of mine and a friend of my children's.'' <!-- possessive -->
# Containing, comprising or made from; may be used directly with a verb or adjectival phrase
#: ''Could you bring me a glass of water?'' <!-- containing -->
#: ''This is an unusually long list of examples.'' <!-- comprising (not physically containing) -->
#: ''First, cut a small square of cloth.'' <!-- made from -->
#: ''The suit was made of wool.'' <!-- used directly with verb -->
#: ''Could you bring me a glass half full of water?'' <!-- used with adjectival phrase -->
# Connects a quantifier with the thing quantified.
#: ''The team included several of the world's top experts in the field.'' <!-- quantifier of quantified -->
#: ''The rocket reached a height of over 100 km.'' <!-- quantified of quantifier -->
# Connects a noun derived from a verb with the object of that verb.
#: ''Some resisted the admission of the new members to the club.''
#: ''This chemical increases the conduction of action potentials in the neuron.''
# (''time expressions'') Before.
#: ''It's almost a quarter of four.''
# Connects a jurisdiction to its name.
#: ''The city of Lawrence is located on the Kaw river.''
# Indicates the age of a person.
#: ''That's a big responsibility for a boy of seven.'' <!-- ''years'' may be left implicit (as with ages in general) -->
#: ''That's a big responsibility for a boy of seven years.''

====Related Terms====
*[[bill of goods]]
*[[by way of]]
*[[come of]]
*[[in excess of]]
*[[in respect of]]
*[[in terms of]]
*[[kind of]]
*[[of all]]
*[[of an]]
*[[of course]]
*[[out of]]
*[[point of view]]
*[[sort of]]
*[[time of day]]
*[[tired of]]
*[[way of life]]

====Translations====
Note: These are now out of sync.
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[的]] (de)
*Dutch:
** [[van]] (''the car of Peter'' = ''de auto van Peter'')
** [[van]] (''made of stone'' = ''van steen gemaakt'')
** [[met]] (''a glass of water'' = ''een glas (met) water'')
*Esperanto: [[de]] (1, 2, 3, 4, 7), [[da]] (2), [[el]] (2, 3), [[antaŭ]] (5)
*French: [[de#French|de]]
*Greek: [[του]] ''m,n sing'' [[της]] ''f sing'' [[των]] ''m,f,n pl''
*German: [[von]]
*Indonesian: [[dari]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[de]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[di]]
*Japanese: [[の]]
*[[Jèrriais]]: [[dé]]
*Korean: [[의]] (eui)
*[[Novial]]: [[de]]
*Norwegian: [[av]]
*Portuguese: [[de]]
*Romanian: [[al]] ''m sg'', [[a]] ''f sg'', [[ale]] {{f}} {{p}}, [[ai]] {{m}} {{p}} (1), [[de]] (2)
*Spanish: [[de#Spanish|de]]
*Thai: [[ของ]]
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[bilong]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

* {{ttbc|Yiddish}}: [[פון]]

===See also===
*[['s]]

==Dutch==
===Conjunction===
'''of'''

# [[or]]

[[Category:English prepositions]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[de:of]]
[[fr:of]]
[[io:of]]
[[id:of]]
[[it:of]]
[[ku:of]]
[[la:of]]
[[hu:of]]
[[nl:of]]
[[ja:of]]
[[pl:of]]
[[pt:of]]
[[fi:of]]
[[zh:of]]