{{Wiktionarypar|fogey}}
'''Old fogey''' is a [[nickname]] used to describe someone as slightly old fashioned: out of touch with modern ideals. 

In [[1811]], an Old Fogey was a nickname for an invalid, wounded soldier; derived from the French word ''fougeux''; fierce or fiery. The modern sense has changed the use a little, but there is still the element of invalid in the saying.

'''''Young fogey''''' was humorously applied in a [[British]] context to some younger-generation but rather buttoned-down writers and journalists &mdash; examples being [[Charles Moore (journalist)|Charles Moore]] and (for a while) [[A. N. Wilson]]. The term is attributed to [[Alan Watkins]] writing in 1984 in ''[[The Spectator]]''.

Young Fogey is also used to describe small 'c' conservative young men aged approximately between 15 and 40 who dress in a vintage style (usually that of the 1920s to the 1950s, also known as the 'Brideshead' look after the influence of 'Brideshead Revisited' by Evelyn Waugh), and who tend towards erudite, conservative cultural pursuits. 

Old, somewhat shabby clothing is preferred such as heavy tweeds and antique dinner jackets, and the favoured mode of transport is the bicycle or Morris Minor. Popular pursuits are classical music, fine wines, pipesmoking, and ecclesiasticana, generally of the High Anglican or Roman Catholic persuasion. 

The movement reached its peak in the mid eighties with adherents such as A.N. Wilson and Gavin Stamp. The movement declined in the nineties but still has a following amongst students at Oxbridge and the older universities, as well as in some professions, in particular the antiques and arts dealing world, and the minority classical architecture practices. For more information see 'The Young Fogey Handbook' by Suzanne Lowry.

==External link==

*[http://www.lewrockwell.com/spectator/spec138.html The Young Fogey - An Elegy, 2003 Spectator article]

[[Category:English phrases]]
[[Category:Pseudonyms]]