==English==
{{rank|her|which|have|26|or|from|this|but}}

===Pronunciation===
{{Wikipedia}}
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: ôr
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ɔː(r)/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /O:(r)/
**[[rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)|Rhymes: -ɔː(r)]]

===Homophones===
*[[awe]] (''in [[non-rhotic]] accents'')
*[[oar]]
*[[ore]]
*[[o'er]]

===Conjunction===
'''or'''
# Connects at least two [[word]]s, [[phrase]]s, [[clause]]s, [[etc.]] that each could make a [[sentence]] [[true]].  In [[English]], this is the "[[inclusive or]]."  The "[[exclusive or]]" is "[[either...or]]".
# Logical union of two [[set]]s of values.  There are two forms, an [[exclusive or]] and an [[inclusive or]].

====Synonyms====
*[[and/or]]

====See also====
*[[neither...nor]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[ﻭﺃ]]}}, {{IPAchar|[[ʔaw]]}}  
*[[Basque]]: [[edo]], [[ala]]
*Bosnian: [[ili#Bosnian|ili]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[o]], [[o bé]]
*Chinese: [[或]] (huò); [[或者]] (huòzhě)
*Croatian: [[ili#Croatian|ili]]
*Czech: [[nebo]]
*Danish: [[eller]]
*Dutch: [[of]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[aŭ]]
*Farsi: [[يا]] (yā)
*Finnish: [[tai]], [[vai]]
*French: [[ou]]
*German: [[oder]]
*Gothic: [[vau]]
*[[Greek]]: [[ή]], [[είτε]]
*[[Hindi]]: [[या]] (yā)
*[[Ido]]: [[od]], [[o]]
{{mid}}
*Indonesian: [[atau]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[o]]
*Italian: [[o]], [[od]]  (''euphonic alt. form used before a vowel''), [[oppure]]
*Japanese: [[又は]] ([[または]], mata-wa), [[あるいは]] (arui-wa), [[か]] (ka)
*Latin: [[aut]] (exclusive), [[vel]] (inclusive)
*[[Old English]]: [[hwæþer þe]], [[oþþe]]
*Polish: [[albo]], [[lub]], [[czy]]
*Portuguese: [[ou]]
*Romanian: [[ori]], [[sau]]
*Russian: [[или]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[или#Serbian|или]]
*:Latin: [[ili#Serbian|ili]]
*Slovak: [[alebo]], [[abo]]
*Spanish: [[o]], ''(before words beginning in 'o-' or 'ho-')'' [[u]]
*Swedish: [[eller]]
*Turkish: [[veya]]
*Vietnamese: [[hay]] ''(or: ''hay là'')''
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''OR'''
# Logic function OR, true if one or more of inputs are true.  More exactly said ''[[inclusive]] OR'' (as difference from exclusive OR, [[XOR]]).  Denoted in mathematics as <math>\or</math>.

*(0 OR 0) = 0
*(0 OR 1) = 1
*(1 OR 0) = 1
*(1 OR 1) = 1

====Translations====

*Finnish: [[TAI]]

====See also====
*[[and]]
*[[nand]]
*[[nor]]
*[[xor]]

===Noun===
'''or'''
#{{tincture}}: the gold or yellow [[tincture]] on a [[coat of arms]].
#:* '''1909''': The metals are gold and silver, these being termed "'''or'''" and "argent". &mdash; Arthur Charles Fox-Davies, ''A Complete Guide to Heraldry''
#:* '''1889''': In engraving, "'''Or'''" is expressed by dots. &mdash; Charles Norton Elvin, ''A Dictionary of Heraldry''

====Alternative forms====
:Sometimes abbreviated as '''o.''' in [[heraldic]] contexts. Sometimes capitalized '''Or''' to distinguish use as a color from use as a conjunction.

====Etymology====
:{{L.}} ''[[aurum]]'' "[[gold]]" via [[Old French]] ''[[or]]'' "[[yellow]]".

====Related terms====
*[[Au]] (chemical symbol for gold)

====Translations====
'''gold or yellow tincture'''
{{top}}
*French: [[or]]
*German: [[Gold]]
{{mid}}
*Romanian: [[aur]]
*Slovak: [[zlatá]]
*Spanish: [[oro]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''or'''
#{{tincture}}: of gold or yellow [[tincture]] on a coat of arms.

====Synonyms====
* [[gold]]

====Translations====
'''of yellow or gold colour on a coat of arms'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[zlata#Bosnian|zlata]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[zlata#Croatian|zlata]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[goud]]
*French: [[or]]
*German: [[golden#German|golden]]
*Hungarian: [[arany]]
*Italian: [[oro]]
*Polish: [[złoty]]
{{mid}}
*Romanian: [[auriu]]
*Russian: [[золотой]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[златна#Serbian|златна]] {{m}}
*:Latin: [[zlatna#Serbian|zlatna]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[oro]]
*Swedish: [[guld]]
{{bottom}}

==[[Catalan]]==
===Noun===
'''or'''

# [[gold]]

==French==
===Noun===
'''or''' {{m}}

# a metal, [[gold]]

====Related terms====
*[[orfèvre]]

===Conjunction===
'''or'''

#[[yet]], [[however]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English conjunctions]]
[[Category:Colors]]
[[category:French elements]]

[[de:or]]
[[et:Or]]
[[fr:or]]
[[io:Or]]
[[it:or]]
[[nl:or]]
[[ja:or]]
[[no:Or]]
[[pl:or]]
[[pt:Or]]
[[fi:or]]