==English==
===Noun===
'''orange''', plural '''[[oranges]]'''

#An evergreen tree of the genus ''Citrus''.
#The [[fruit]] of an orange tree.
#The [[colour|color]] of an orange; a reddish-yellow.
<table><tr><td>Orange colour: &nbsp;</td>
<td bgcolor="#FF8000" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>

====Related Terms====
*[[orange juice]]
*[[orangeade]]

====Translations====
*[[Bosnian]]: narandža ''f'' (1, 2), narandžasta ''f'' (3)
*[[Breton]]: [[orañjezenn]] ''f'' -ed ''pl'' (1), [[orañjez]] ''collective noun''; [[orañjezenn]] ''singular f'' (2), [[liv]] [[orañjez]] (3) 
*[[Catalan]]: [[taronger]] ''m'' (1), [[taronja]] ''f'' (2,3)
*Czech: [[pomeranč]] ''m'' (2)
*Danish: [[Appelsin]]
*Dutch: [[sinaasappel]] ''f'' (2), (''in Flanders'') [[appelsien]] ''f'' (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[oranĝo]]
*Finnish: [[appelsiini]] (1, 2), [[oranssi]] (3)
*French: orange ''f'' (2, 3)
*Galician: [[laranxeira]] ''f'' (1), [[laranxa]] ''f'' (2, 3)
*German: Orange ''f'', [[Apfelsine]] ''f''
*Greek: [[πορτοκάλι]] (portok&aacute;li)
*Hebrew: [[כתום]] (Katom)
*Hungarian [[narancs]]
*Indonesian: [[jeruk]], [[limau]]
*{{ga}}: [[oraiste]]
*Italian: [[arancio]] ''m'' (1), [[arancia]] ''f'' (2), [[arancione]] ''m'' (3)
*Japanese: [[みかん]] (mikan), [[オレンジ]] (orenji)
*Korean: [[오렌지]] [orange] (orenji)
*[[Lojban]]: [[najnimre]]
*[[Occitan]]: [[irange]]
*Polish: [[pomarańcza]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[laranja]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[portocală]] ''f'' (2), [[portocal]] ''m'' (1), [[portocaliu]] ''m'' (3)
*Russian: [[апельсин]] ''m'' (2), apelsin
*Slovene: [[oranževec]] ''m'' (1), [[pomaranča]] ''f'' (2), [[oranžna]] ''f'' (3)
*[[Slovio]]: [[oranzx]]
*Spanish: [[naranjo]] ''m'' (1), [[naranja]] ''f'' (2, 3)
*Swedish: [[apelsinträd]] (1), [[apelsin]] (2) [[orange]] (3)
*Vietnamese: [[cây cam]] (1), [[quả cam]] (2), [[mầu cam]] (3)

===Adjective===
'''orange'''

#Having the [[color|colour]] of the fruit of an orange tree.
#Reddish-yellow.

====Translations====
*[[Breton]]: [[orañjez]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[taronja]], [[carabassa]]
*[[Czech]]: [[oranžový]] ''m'', [[oranžová]] ''f'', [[oranžové]] ''n''
*Danish: orange
*Dutch: [[oranje]] ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[oranĝkoloro]]
*Finnish: [[oranssi]]
*French: orange
*German: orange
*Greek: [[ ]] (portokali)
*Indonesian: [[jingga]]
*Italian: [[arancione]]
*Japanese: [[橙色]] (だいだいいろ, daidai-iro)
*Korean: [[주황색]] [朱黃色] (juhwangsaek) ''noun''
*[[Lojban]]: [[narju]]
*Portuguese: [[laranja]]
*Polish: [[pomarańczowy]] ''m'', [[pomarańczowa]] ''f'', [[pomarańczowe]] ''n''
*Romanian: [[portocaliu]], [[oranj]]
*Russian: [[оранжевый]]
*Slovene: [[oranžen]] ''m'', [[oranžna]] ''f'', [[oranžno]] ''n''
*[[Slovio]]: [[oranzxju]]
*Spanish: [[naranja]], [[anaranjado]]
*Swedish: [[orange]] (1, 2)
*Vietnamese: [[cam]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

==French==
[[de:Orange]] [[fr:Orange]] [[nl:Orange]]

===Adjective===
# orange is a color betwen [[yellow]] and red [[rouge]], its name come frome he fruit (orange color).
#: ''Les premiers TGV atlantiques étaient oranges.'' - The first atlantic TGV trains were orange.

===Noun===
# orange is a [[fruit]].
#: ''Il pressa l''''orange''', afin d'en extrraire du jus.'' - He pressed the orange to extract its juice.


===Proper Noun===
'''Orange'''

#Orange is the name of cities:
#* a French village in [[Vaucluse]]<!--Orange is a commune française in Vaucluse-->.
#* a city in Australia.
#* Cities in the United States of America:
#** California <!--Orange en Californie -->
#** Connecticut <!--Orange dans le Connecticut -->
#** Massachusetts 
#** Ohio 
#** Texas 
#** Virginia

# [[Orange SA]] is a télécommunications company.
# The House of [[Orange-Nassau]] is the royal house or family of The Netherlands. <!--La [[Maison d'Orange-Nassau]] est une famille princière néerlandaise-->

# In South Africa:
#* [[Orange]] is a river named in honor of the Dutch royal house
#* [[Orange Free State]] (French: [[État libre d'Orange]]) was a Dutch colony bordering this river, now a part of the [[Republic of South Africa]].
#* The [[République d'Orange]] is an [[imaginary]] [[micro-nation]].

[[Category:English colors]]
[[Category:English fruit nouns]]
[[Category:French colors]]
[[Category:French fruits]]