==English==

===Etymology===
French ''[[orbe]]'', from Latin ''[[orbis]]'', circle, orb.  Compare [[orbit]].

===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: [[WEAE]] /oɹb/, {{UK}}  /ɔː(r)b/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A spherical body; a globe; especially, one of the  celestial spheres; a sun, planet, or star.
#:    In the small orb of one particular tear. --Shak.
#:    Whether the prime orb, Incredible how swift, had thither rolled. --Milton.
# One of the azure transparent spheres conceived by the ancients to be inclosed one within another, and to carry the heavenly bodies in their revolutions.
# A circle; especially, a circle, or nearly circular orbit, described by the revolution of a heavenly body; an orbit.
#:    The schoolmen were like astronomers, which did feign eccentrics, and epicycles, and such engines of orbs. --Bacon.
#:    You seem to me as Dian in her orb. --Shak.
#:    In orbs Of circuit inexpressible they stood, Orb within orb. --Milton.
# {{rare}} A period of time marked off by the revolution of a heavenly body. --Milton.
# {{poetic}} The eye, as luminous and spherical.
#:    A drop serene hath quenched their orbs. --Milton.
#  {{poetic}} A revolving circular body; a wheel.
#:    The orbs Of his fierce chariot rolled. --Milton.
# {{rare}} A sphere of action. --Wordsworth.
#:    But in our orbs we'll live so round and safe. --Shak
# Same as [[Mound]], a ball or globe.
# A translucent sphere appearing in digital flash photography, with no scientific explanation.

====Translations====

'''spherical body'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Chinese: [[天體]], [[天体]]
*French: [[orbe#French|orbe]] {{m}}
*German: [[Kugel]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[σφαίρα]] {{m}}
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Japanese: [[球体]]
*Korean: [[천체]]
*Spanish: [[orbe#Spanish|orbe]] {{m}}
|}
|}

'''one of the azure transparent spheres conceived by the ancients to be inclosed one within another, and to carry the heavenly bodies in their revolutions'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''circle''' <br>
''See [[circle]]''

'''orbit''' <br>
''See [[orbit]]''

'''period of time marked off by the revolution of a heavenly body''' <br>
''See [[year]]''

'''poetic: the eye, as luminous and spherical'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''poetic: a revolving circular body; a wheel'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''sphere of action'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''same as [[mound]], a ball or globe''' <br>
''See [[mound]], [[ball]], [[globe]]''

===Verb===
'''orb'''

# {{poetic}} To form into an orb or circle. --Milton. Lowell.
# {{poetic}} {{transitive}} To encircle; to surround; to inclose. 
# {{transitive}} In the television programme/program ''[[w:Charmed|Charmed]]'', to utilize the type of [[teleportation]] particularly associated with [[whitelighter]]s.
# {{poetic}} {{intransitive}} To become round like an orb.

===Anagrams===
*[[bor]]
*[[bro]]
*[[rob]]

{{webster}}

----

==Estonian==
===Etymology===
From the same Finno-Ugric root *''orpa'' as Finnish [[orpo]] and Hungarian [[árva]]
=== Noun ===
'''orb'''

# [[orphan]]

[[Category:Estonian nouns]]

[[fr:orb]]
[[it:orb]]