== English ==
=== Adjective ===
'''oriental''' (sometimes, but not commonly ''Oriental'')

# Of or relating to the [[Orient]].
#: ''Note: many people find this term to be objectionable.  See the '''usage note''' below.''


=== Noun ===
'''oriental''' (pl. ''orientals'')

# A person from the [[Orient]], or with ancestry from the Orient.
#: ''Note: this term is frequently considered highly objectionable or offensive.  See the '''usage note''' below.''

=== Usage note ===
The term ''oriental'' traditionally referred to the people, culture, and nations of the [[Near East]], though it has more recently <!-- Note: time frames would be useful here) --> come to refer to the people, culture, and nations of the [[Far East]].  Even more recently, it has come to be considered objectionable or offensive, particularly in its noun form.  While ''[[Orient|the Orient]]'' has become a somewhat dated term, ''oriental'' (in both adjective and noun form, particularly the noun form) still sees frequent use, though objection to it is [[on the rise]].

One reason the term has come [[under fire]] is that it has been used frequently (though by no means exclusively) to denigrate Asian people and people of Asian descent, which many people feel has lent the word itself a bad connotation (see the usage note at ''[[nigger]]'').  Another reason people object to the term is that they consider it a [[blanket term]] for people of Asian or East Asian descent, used in spite of the varied and often disparate cultures and histories of that area, and that this lends the term an emphasis on the sameness or indistinguishability of those cultures and peoples (and in reverse, gives the idea that the person using the term either isn't aware of cultural difference within Asia, or doesn't care about it), as well as on their foreignness.  A third reason given is that the term has such a vague meaning (i.e., it is never clear which countries are included within the term and which are not; see usage note at ''[[hispanic]]''), that it can only be used usefully between people who are ignorant of the region and know no more precise way to refer to it.

Major objections to the term are fairly recent, and so it still sees frequent use, often by people unaware that there exist widespread objections to it.  As awareness of the cultures in Asia has increased, its usage has decreased (other terms frequently used with similar meaning are: ''Asian'' and ''East Asian'').  It can still be found in the mainstream media, however, though with nowhere near as much frequency as in decades past.  It can also still be found frequently in the windows of Asian (particularly Thai) restaurants, as well as in Southern and rural parts of the United States.

{{sectstub}}

=== Related terms ===
*[[Orient]]
*[[orientalism]]
*[[oriental rug]]
*[[oriental cuisine]]
*[[oriental tongue]]

=== See also ===
*[[Asia]]
*[[asiatic]]
*[[East Asia]]
*[[Far East]]
*[[Middle East]]
*[[Occident]]
*[[occidental]]
*[[Persia]]
*[[Persian rug]]