{{see|out-}}
==English==
{{rank|if|there|more|54|out|into|up|your}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[ut|ūt]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/aʊt/}}
* {{audio|en-ca-out.ogg|Audio (CA)}}
* {{audio|en-us-out.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aʊt|-aʊt]]

===Adverb===
'''out'''

# Away from home, not indoors.
#: ''Let's eat out tonight''
# Away from.
#: ''Keep out!''
# Into a state of non-operation; into non-existence.
#: ''Switch the lights out''
#: ''Put the fire out''
# Used to [[intensify]] or [[emphasize]].
#:''The place was all decked '''out''' for the holidays.''

====Related terms====
*[[far out]]
*[[go out]]
*[[eat out]]
*[[out-]] <!-- do not add words such as "outdo" here - these belong under the prefix "out-" -->
*[[outer]]
*[[out of]]
*[[outta]] = slang, contraction of ''out of''
*[[outworn]]
*[[put out]]
*[[way out]]

===Preposition===
# Away from the inside or the centre.
#: ''The magician pulled the rabbit out of the hat''

====Antonyms====
*(1) [[into]]
*(2) [[in]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[jashtë]]
*Basque: [[at]]
*Catalan: [[fora]]
*Croatian: [[van]]
*Czech: [[ven]]
*Esperanto: [[eksteren]]
*French: [[hors]]
*German: [[heraus]], [[hinaus]]
*Hungarian: [[kint]] (''outside''), [[kinn]] (''outside''), [[ki]] (''motion'')
{{mid}}
*Indonesian: [[ke]][[luar]]
*Irish: [[amach]] (''direction, the transition from ''in'' to ''out''), [[amuigh]] (''the state of being out'')
*Italian: [[fuori]]
*Latin: [[ex|ē, ex]]
*Norwegian: [[ut]] (''direction, the transition from ''in'' to ''out''), [[ute]] (''the state of being out'')
*Piedmontese: [[fora]]
*Romanian: [[afară]]
*Romansch: [[ord]]
*Slovak: [[von]]
*Spanish: [[fuera]]
*Swedish: [[ut]] (''direction, the transition from ''in'' to ''out''), [[ute]] (''the state of being out'')
{{bottom}}

In many languages there is no direct translation, as the idea expressed by the English ''adverb'' is expressed by a ''prefix'' in many languages. German is somewhat half way in-between as it uses a ''prefix'' in the infinitive of its verbs, but often, though not always, separates the prefix into the same form as the English ''adverb'' when cojugating them.

*Dutch: usually expressed by the prefix [[uit-]]
*Esperanto: usually expressed by the prefix [[el-]] and/or preposition [[el]] (1), [[ekstere]] (2)
*German: usually expressed by the prefix [[aus-]]
*Hungarian: usually expressed by the prefix [[ki-]]
*Latin: usually expressed by the prefix [[ex-]]
*Slovak: usually expressed by the prefix [[vy-]] or sometimes [[z-]]
*Swedish: sometimes expressed by the prefix [[ut-]]. In some cases considered somewhat formal.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# A [[means]] of [[exit]], [[escape]], [[reprieve]], etc.
#:''They wrote the law to give those organizations an '''out'''.''
# {{baseball}} A state in which a member of the batting team is removed from play because the defending team threw the baseball past the batter three times in the [[strike]] zone, fielded a ball hit in the air, or fielded a ball hit to the ground and moved the ball to a defender blocking the runner's ability to move from [[base]] to base.


====Translations====
'''removal from play in baseball'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Slovak: [[#Slovak|out]] (''pronounced the English way'')
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''to out'''

# {{transitive}} To declare a person to be a [[homosexual]], especially one who is reluctant for this information to be made public.
# {{transitive}} To declare a personal secret belonging to another person.

====Antonyms====
*[[in]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*French: [[aouter]] (1)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''out'''

# Not at home.
# (''cricket, baseball'') Of a player, disqualified from playing further by some action of a member of the opposing team (such as being [[stump|stumped]] in cricket).
# Openly acknowledging one's [[homosexuality]].

====Synonyms====
*(3) [[openly]] [[gay]]

====Antonyms====
*(1) [[not]] out
*(2) [[in]], not out
*(3) [[closeted]], not out

====Related terms====
*[[outback]]
*[[outer]]
*[[outing]]
*[[outness]]
*[[all out]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Czech: [[ven]]
*Esperanto: [[ekstere]] (1)
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[soto]]
*Slovak: [[von#Slovak|von]], [[vonku#Slovak|vonku]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English prepositions]]

[[fr:out]]
[[io:out]]
[[it:out]]
[[hu:out]]
[[fi:out]]
[[ta:out]]