{{Wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
:From English ''[[outer]]'' and ''[[space]]''.

===Noun===
'''outer space''' 

# Region outside explored space.
# Any [[region]] of space beyond limits determined with reference to boundaries of a [[celestial]] system or body, especially the region of space immediately beyond Earth's [[atmosphere]]
# (colour) A slightly lighter black color 
#:<table><tr><td>outer space colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#001041" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>

====Quotations====
;'''Outer space''' ''([[noun]])'' 
*'''1842''' - Emmeline Stuart-Wortley, ''The Maiden of Moscow'' (1842).
*:The World--that rocks--and heaves--and beams!--
*:A Stormy Sun, itself it gleams!--
*:Keeps this, indeed, its place of old?--
*:All seems down steep Destruction rolled!
*:All Earth in madness moved,--o'erthrown,
*:To outer space--driven--racked--undone!
*'''1849''' - Thomas Buchanan Read, ''Lays and ballads'' (1849).
*:DEATH.
*::What they who find me make me---Shall we go?
*:OLD MAN.
*::Whither?
*:DEATH.
*::Upward---and onward, into outer space,
*::Where she, thy kindred spirit, waiteth thee.

====Translations====
'''region'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: espai exterior
*Finnish: [[ulkoavaruus]]
*Hebrew: [[החלל החיצון]]
*Japanese: [[宇宙空間]] (うちゅうくうかん, uchūkūkan)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''colour'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Weltraum]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[espacio exterior]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category: English nouns]]
[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Blacks]]
[[Category: Astronomy]]