==English==
===Etymology===
Greek ''oxys'', sharp + ''moros'', stupid.

===Noun===
'''oxymoron''' (''plural'' '''oxymorons''')

#A [[figure of speech]] in which two words of opposing meanings are used together to express two contrasting qualities in one concept.
#:''"Bitter-sweet" is an example of an oxymoron; memories that are bitter-sweet are both painful and pleasant to recall.''
#(''non-standard'') A [[contradiction in terms]].

====Usage note====

*The standard meaning of '''oxymoron''' is the figure of speech described here, in which the contradiction is deliberate.  In a [[contradiction in terms]], the contradiction is unintentional and the person using the word is often unaware of it.  Use of '''oxymoron''' in the latter sense obscures the standard meaning of the word and so is avoided by careful speakers and writers. 
:However, living languages move on like a flowing river, leaving pedants behind! Unlike French, there is no such thing as "Standard" English. What is used is what should go into Wiktionary, the living dictionary. Perhaps along with a note about the past, historical usage by the "ancients".

====Translations====

'''figure of speech'''
{| border=0  width=100% 
|- 
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%| 
{| 
<!--languages from A to I go here--> 
|} 
| width=1% | 
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%| 
{| 
<!--languages from J to Z go here--> 
|} 
|} 

'''contradiction in terms'''
''See [[contradiction in terms]]''

====Useful Links====
www.oxymoronlist.com - claims to be the largest list of oxymorons ever collected online