==Dutch==

===Verb===
'''gaan'''

# To [[go]].

====Conjugation====
{{nl-verb|ga|gaat|ging|gingen|zijn|gegaan|ga}}
[[Category:Dutch strong verbs]]

====Derived terms====
* [[aangaan]]
* [[buitengaan]]
* [[doorgaan]]
* [[ingaan]]
* [[meegaan]]
* [[ondergaan]]
* [[opgaan]]
* [[overgaan]]
* [[uitgaan]]
* [[weggaan]]


----
==Navajo==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[kɑ̀ːn]}}

===Etymology===

From Proto-Athabascan *''-ɢa̓·ŋ-əʔ''. 

Cognates: 
* Apachean: Western Apache ''-gan'', Chiricahua ''-gan'', Jicarilla ''-gan'', Lipan ''-gąą’'', Plains Apache ''-gąą''
* Others: Tsuut’ina ''-gànὰ’'', Hupa ''-ɢan-'', Mattole, ''-gaane’'', Galice ''gaaneʔ'', Chilcotin ''-gán'', Slavey ''-gǫ́’'', Hare ''-góné’'', Dogrib ''-gǫ̀'', Dene Sųłiné ''-gané'', Sekani ''-gòne’'', Dunneza ''-góné’'', Central Tanana ''-gonaʔ'', Hän ''-gæ̀nn’'', Ahtna ''-ɢaane’'', Dena’ina ''-ɢuna'', Eyak ''-ɢəla’''

===Noun===
'''-gaan''' (''[[inalienable]]'', e.g., '''shigaan''' "my arm", '''bigaan''' "her/his/their arm"), ''compound form'': '''gąą-''', '''gą-''', '''gan-'''

#[[arm]], foreleg, limb, branch, front wheel

====Derived terms====
*[[chidí bigaan]] "front wheel of car"
*-[[gaan ahánáwo’ó gónaa]] "knuckle/wrist/elbow/shoulder joint"
*-[[gaan bita’ sitání]] "humerus, upper arm bone" (cf. ''-gąąsts’in bita’ sitání'')
*-[[gaan k’éz’áí]] "paralyzed/stiff arm" (cf. ''-gąą doo ahą́ą́h ndeełí'')
*[[gaanee]] "by hand, manual, armway"
**[[gaanee naanish]] "manual labor, hand labor, unskilled labor"
*-[[gaanlóó’]] "forearm, lower arm, ulna" (also ''-gąąlóó’'')
*-[[ganighah]] "area of scapula, back of arm" (also ''-gąąghah'', cf. ''-gąnaghah'', ''-gąną́ghah'')
*-[[gąnaghah]] "around back of arm over shoulder" (also ''-gąną́ghah'', cf. ''-gąąghah'', ''-ganighah'')
*-[[gąnághah]] "around back of arm over shoulder" (also ''-gąnąghah'', cf. ''-gąąghah'', ''-ganighah'')
*-[[gąą agodí]] "cut-off arm" (cf. ''-gąą’agod'')
*-[[gąą doo ahą́ą́h ndeełí]] "stiff/paralyzed arm" (cf. ''-gaan k’éz’áí'')
*-[[gąą’agod]] "amputated arm stump" (cf. ''-gąą agodí'')
*-[[gąąbąst’áán]] "arm on fletching"
*-[[gąądikéé’]] "human arm prints, quadruped foreleg prints"
*-[[gąądoh]] "arm muscle"
*-[[gąąghah]] "area of scapula, back of arm" (also ''-ganighah'', cf. ''gąnaghah'', ''-gąną́ghah'')
*-[[gąąghahashjéé’]] "shoulder bands"
*-[[gąąghahazt’i’]] "shoulder band"
*-[[gąąk’is]] "arm/foreleg missing, one-armed"
*-[[gąąlóó’]] "forearm, lower arm, ulna" (also ''-gaanlóó’'')
*-[[gąąstsiin]] "scapula, shoulder blade" (also ''-gą́ą́stsiin'', cf. ''-gąąts’in'', ''-gąąts’iin'')
**-[[gąąstsiin ałch’į’ nahííláhí]] "spinal area between scapula"
**-[[gąąstsiin ałch’į’ nihiníláagi]] "between shoulder blades, horse withers"
*-[[gą́ą́stsiin]] "scapula, shoulder blade" (also ''-gąąstsiin'')
*-[[gąąsts’iin]] "shoulder blade, arm bone" (cf. ''gąąts’in'', ''-gąąstsiin'', ''-gą́ą́stsiin'')
*-[[gąąts’in]] "arm/foreleg bone" (cf. ''gąąstsiin'', ''-gą́ą́stsiin'', ''-gąąsts’iin'') 
**-[[gąąsts’in bita’ sitání]] "humerus, upper arm bone" (cf. ''-gaan bita’ sitání'')
*-[[gąąyaaí]] "forearm"
*-[[gąązhnézhí]] "arm fringes"
*-[[gąązis]] "sleeve" (also ''-gąąziz'')
*-[[gąąziz]] "sleeve" (also ''-gąązis'')
*-[[láshgaan]] "fingernail, bird claw, quadruped fore-claws"
*-[[késhgaan]] "toenail, quadruped hind-claws"
*[[ńdíshchíí’ bigaan]] "pine branch"
*[[tsin bigaan]] "tree limb"

[[Category:Navajo language]]

[[es:gaan]]
[[fr:gaan]]
[[io:gaan]]
[[id:gaan]]
[[nl:gaan]]
[[vi:gaan]]
[[zh:gaan]]