==English==
====Etymology====
Apparently from the sound made; believed to have first appeared in comic strips.
 
===Interjection===
'''gack'''
# ''(often repeated several times)'' The sound of a cat coughing up a [[hairball]].  
# Also used of similar noises, particularly one made to show disgust or disapproval.

===Intransitive Verb===
'''gack'''
# To make a 'gack' noise.
 
===Transitive Verb===
# {{rfv-sense}} To [[regurgitate]] a hairball.

 
===Quotations===
*'''1995:''' “'''Gack''',” said Judith. “I don’t remember that. I wish you hadn’t.  —Mary Daheim, ''Major Vices'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=jasmoN0AehgC&pg=PA112&lpg=PA112&sig=6PhqqqUc03otfBvQxdRAp7vAbeg]
*'''1999:''' Sports was immediately consigned to a recycle pile where it was handy in case she heard the unmistakable '''''gack-gack-gack''''' machine-gun regurgitation sound of Midnight Louie about to deposit a hairball on some particularly cherished piece of paper or furniture.  —Carole Nelson Douglas, ''Cat in an Indigo Mood'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=11jt6HVEb2gC&pg=PA176&lpg=PA176&sig=p_lZFsgGOFD0I0sGkRbCwEaB2SY]
*'''2000:''' He rubbed his throat, '''gacked''' like a cat spitting up a hair ball. —Dennis Lehane, ''Prayers for Rain'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=ryrPaNqdW70C&pg=PA34&lpg=PA34&sig=aRt-jgxcpcB_WtbN_ZnQIp_MgQo]
*'''2002:'''  I watch him to see if it’s just a furball or something worse, and I have to rush him to the hospital, but it turns out to be a furball. “'''Gack. Gack. Gack.'''” (Their furball-throwing-up noise.) —Stacy Horn, ''Waiting for My Cats to Die'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=Q5K_6QMO9KcC&pg=PA31&lpg=PA31&sig=GflWZpfp9sQ_ZCHPcc1sx3yBW3E]
*'''2003:''' As I am laying concrete blocks to fix the foundation, I hear “'''gack gack gack'''” from the forest, getting closer. Then a large pileated woodpecker buzzes me twice before settling on the elderberry bush, [...] '''gacking''' at me sometimes to let me know he is very alert; [...] And he '''gacks''' and watches back out of one eye.  —Marcus E Ryan, ''Two Diaries.'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=N0WzoeM84s0C&pg=PA141&lpg=PA141&sig=aGOft04qaNfK10k4ZbccXxZHkdc]
*'''2004:''' I practiced faithfully every day, drawing my bow as she instructed, making my violin go '''''Gack! Gack!''''' like a cat coughing up a hairball. —Evelina Chao, ''Yeh Yeh's House'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=X3vOl0Nl2lEC&pg=PA13&lpg=PA13&sig=97kwlztSOF0KmGQMdoxKFu6u5Z0]