==English==
===Etymology 1===
Taboo deformation of [[God]]

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æd|-æd]]

===Interjection===
'''gad'''
# An exclamatory interjection roughly equivalent to 'by God', 'goodness gracious', 'for goodness' sake'.
#:'''1905''' '' That's the trouble -- it was too easy for you -- you got reckless -- thought you could turn me inside out, and chuck me in the gutter like an empty purse. But, by '''gad''', that ain't playing fair: that's dodging the rules of the game.'' — Edith Wharton, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=725168280&tag=Wharton,+Edith,+1862-1937:+The+House+of+Mirth,+1905&query=gad&id=WhaHous House of Mirth.]'' 
===Etymology 2===
Middle English ''[[gadden]]'', 'to hurry, to rush about'

===Verb===
{{en-verb|gadd|ing}}
# To move from one location to another in an apparently random manner; often as phrasal verb '''gad about'''. 
#:'''1852'''' ''"This, I suppose, is the virgin who abideth still in the house with you. She is not given, I hope, to '''gadding''' overmuch, nor to vain and foolish decorations of her person with ear-rings and finger-rings, and crisping-pins: for such are unprofitable, yea, abominable.'' — Alice Cary, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=148726342&tag=EAF489v2&query=gad&id=eaf489v2 Clovernook ....]''

===Etymology 3===
Middle English, from Old Norse ''gaddr''.
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A sharp-pointed object; a goad.
#:'''December 17, 1885''' ''Twain finds his voice after a short search for it and when he impels it forward it is a good, strong, steady voice in harness until the driver becomes absent-minded, when it stops to rest, and then the '''gad''' must be used to drive it on again.'' — ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/railton/huckfinn/hfdtroit.html Detroit Free Press.]''
# A pointed metal tool for breaking or chiseling rock, especially in mining.
# {{obsolete}} A wedge-shaped billet of iron or steel. 
#An old English indeterminate measure of metal produced by a furnace, perhaps equivalent to the bloom, perhaps weighing around 100 pounds. 
#:'''1957''' ''Twice a day a <b>'gad'</b> of iron, i.e., a bloom weighing 1 [[cwt]]. was produced, which took from six to seven hours.'' &mdash; H.R. Schubert, ''History of the British Iron and Steel Industry'', p. 146.
----

==Bosnian==
===Noun===
'''gad''' {{m}} ({{p}}: '''gadovi''')

#a [[repulsive]] [[person]]
#[[scoundrel]]
#[[cad]]
#[[asshole]]
[[Category:Bosnian nouns]]

----

==Croatian==
===Noun===
'''gad''' {{m}} ({{p}}: '''gadovi''')

#a [[repulsive]] [[person]]
#[[scoundrel]]
#[[cad]]
#[[asshole]]
[[Category:Croatian nouns]]

----

==Navajo==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[kɑ̀t]~[kɣɑ̀t]}}

===Noun===
'''gad'''

#[[juniper]], [[cedar]]

[[Category:Navajo language]]


----

==Serbian==
===Noun===
'''gad''' {{m}} ({{p}}: '''gadovi''')

#a [[repulsive]] [[person]]
#[[scoundrel]]
#[[cad]]
#[[asshole]]
====Cyrillic spelling====
*[[гад#Serbian|гад]]
[[Category:Serbian nouns]]
----
==Torres Strait Creole==
===Noun===
'''gad'''

# (''eastern dialect'') an [[immature]] [[coconut]]
===Usage note===
''Gad'' or ''[[smol koknat]]'' is the third stage of coconut growth. It is preceded by ''[[giru]]'' (eastern dialect) or ''[[musu koknat]]'' (western dialect), and followed by ''[[kopespes]]''.
[[Category:Torres Strait Creole nouns]]
[[hu:gad]]
[[pl:gad]]
[[vo:gad]]
[[zh:gad]]