==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology ===
Old English [[gealla]], from Latin [[galla]], 'gallnut'. There may be a coalescence of two roots, with OE [[geolu]], 'yellow' being the other.

===Noun===

{{en-noun|-}}
#{{anatomy}} {{obsolete}} [[bile|Bile]], especially that of an animal; the greenish, profoundly bitter-tasting fluid found in [[bile duct]]s and [[gallbladder]]s, structures associated with the [[liver]].
# Great [[misery]] or physical [[suffering]], likened to the bitterest-tasting of substances.
#:'''1611''' ''Lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turneth away this day from the LORD our God, to go and serve the gods of these nations; lest there should be among you a root that beareth '''gall''' and wormwood'' — Deuteronomy 29:18 [[KJV]]
# A [[blister]] or tumor-like growth found on the surface of plants, caused by by burrowing of insect larvae into the living tissues, especially that of the common oak gall wasp (''Cynips quercusfolii'').
#:'''1974''' ''Even so, Redi retained a belief that in certain other cases--the origin of parasites inside the human or animal body or of grubs inside of oak '''galls'''--there must be spontaneous generation. Bit by bit the evidence grew against such views. In 1670 Jan Swammerdam, painstaking student of the insect's life cycle, suggested that the grubs in galls were enclosed in them for the sake of nourishment and must come from insects that had inserted their semen or their eggs into the plants.'' — ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/cgi-local/DHI/dhi.cgi?id=dv2-34 Dictionary of the History of Ideas.]''
# A bump-like imperfection resembling a gall.
#:'''1653''' ''But first for your Line. First note, that you are to take care that your hair be round and clear, and free from '''galls''', or scabs, or frets: for a well- chosen, even, clear, round hair, of a kind of glass-colour, will prove as strong as three uneven scabby hairs that are ill-chosen, and full of '''galls''' or unevenness. You shall seldom find a black hair but it is round, but many white are flat and uneven; therefore, if you get a lock of right, round, clear, glass-colour hair, make much of it.'' — Izaak Walton, ''The Compleat Angler'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=659275809&tag=Walton,+Izaak:+The+Compleat+Angler:+or,+The+Contemplative+Man`s+Recreation,+1653+(1927)&query=+gall&id=WalAngl Chapter 21.]
# A feeling of [[exasperation]].
#:'''1792''' ''It moves my '''gall''' to hear a preacher descanting on dress and needle-work; and still more, to hear him address the British fair, the fairest of the fair, as if they had only feelings.'' — Mary Wollstonecraft, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=748183189&tag=Wollstonecraft,+Mary,+1759-1797:+A+vindication+of+the+rights+of+woman,+1892&query=gall+to&id=WolVind A Vindication of the Rights of Woman.]''
# An action demonstrating [[impudence]] or [[brazen]]ness; [[temerity]], [[chutzpah]].
#:'''1918''' ''"Durn ye!" he cried. "I'll lam ye! Get offen here. I knows ye. Yer one o' that gang o' bums that come here last night, an' now you got the '''gall''' to come back beggin' for food, eh? I'll lam ye!" and he raised the gun to his shoulder.'' — Arthur Conan Doyle, ''The Oakdale Affair'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=124017217&tag=Burroughs,+Edgar+Rice,+1875-1950:+The+Oakdale+Affair,+1918&query=the+gall&id=BurOakd Chapter 6.] 
# A sore on a horse caused by an ill-fitted saddle.
#:''Riding a horse with bruised or broken skin can cause a gall, which frequently results in the white saddle marks seen on the withers and backs of some horses.''
[http://www.cdc.gov/nasd/docs/d000001-d000100/d000027/d000027.html National Ag Safety Database (Centers for Disease Control).]
# {{medicine}} {{obsolete}} A sore or open wound caused by chafing, which may become infected, as with blisters.
#:'''1892 ''' ''The runaway slave came to my house and stopt outside, 
#:''I heard his motions crackling the twigs of the woodpile, 
#:''Through the swung half-door of the kitchen I saw him limpsy and weak, 
#:''And went where he sat on a log and led him in and assured him, 
#:''And brought water and fill'd a tub for his sweated body and bruis'd feet, 
#:''And gave him a room that enter'd from my own, and gave him some coarse clean clothes, 
#:''And remember perfectly well his revolving eyes and his awkwardness, 
#:''And remember putting plasters on the '''galls''' of his neck and ankles; 
#:''He staid with me a week before he was recuperated and pass'd north, 
#:''I had him sit next me at table, my fire-lock lean'd in the corner. — Walt Whitman, [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&grouping=match&docs=TEI2&query=galls&sample=1-100&id=Whi1855 "Song of Myself",] ''Leaves of Grass''.


===Verb===
{{en-verb}}
# To [[annoy]] or [[vex]].
#:'''1883''' ''I went below, and did what I could for my wound; it pained me a good deal, and still bled freely; but it was neither deep nor dangerous, nor did it greatly '''gall''' me when I used my arm.'' — [[w:Robert Louis Stevenson|Robert Louis Stevenson]], ''[[w:Treasure Island|Treasure Island]], [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=595860674&tag=Stevenson,+Robert+Louis,+1850-1894:+Treasure+Island,+1883&query=+gall&id=SteTrea Chapter 27.]
# To harass, to cause injury.
#:'''June 24, 1778''' ''The disposition for these detachments is as follows -- Morgans corps, to gain the enemy's right flank; Maxwells brigade to hang on their left. Brigadier Genl. Scott is now marching with a very respectable detachment destined to '''gall''' the enemys left flank and rear.'' — George Washington, ''The Writings of George Washington From the Original Manuscript Sources:  [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=675205858&tag=Washington,+George,+1732-1799:+The+writings+of+George+Washington+from+the+original+manuscript+sources:+Volume+12,+1745-1799&query=+gall&id=WasFi12 Volume 12], 1745-1799''.
# To be chafed, sore, irritated.
# To be [[exasperate]]d.
#:'''1979''' ''Metrinko was hungry, but he was '''galled''' by how self-congratulatory his captors seemed, how generous and noble and proudly Islamic.'' — Mark Bowden, "Captivity Pageant", ''The Atlantic'', Volume 296, No. 5, pp. 92-97, [http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200512/december-1979/4 December, 1979.]



====Translations====
*Finnish: [[ärsyttää]] (1), [[suututtaa]] (1)

====Derived terms====
*[[gallbladder]]
*[[gall midge]]
*[[gall wasp]]
----

==Catalan==
===Etymology===
Latin [[gallus]]
===Noun===
'''gall'''

# [[cock]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

[[de:gall]]
[[el:gall]]
[[fr:gall]]
[[io:gall]]
[[no:gall]]
[[zh:gall]]