{{see|gång|gäng}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æŋ|-æŋ]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[going]]; a [[course]].
# A [[number]] [[go]]ing in [[company]]; hence, a company, or a number of persons [[associate]]d for a particular purpose; a group of laborers under one foreman; a squad; as, a gang of sailors; a chain gang; a gang of thieves.
# A [[combination]] of [[similar]] [[implement]]s arranged so as, by acting together, to save time or [[labor]]; a [[set]]; as, a gang of saws, or of plows.
# A [[set]]; all required for an outfit; as, a new gang of stays.
# The [[mineral]] [[substance]] which [[inclose]]s a [[vein]]; a [[matrix]]; a [[gangue]].
# {{italbrac|Electrical components}} The number of switches wired into one face plate.
# {{italbrac|Electrical components}} A group of wires attached as a collection; a ''gang of wires''.
#: ''Do a drop for the telephone '''gang''', then another drop for the internet '''gang''', both through the ceiling of the wiring closet.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Esperanto: [[bando]] (2)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#{{intransitive}} To [[band]] together as a [[group]] or gang.

====Derived terms====
*[[chain gang]]
*[[gang bang]]
*[[gang rape]]
*[[gangster]]
*[[gang up]]
*[[gang violence]]

====See also====
[[Appendix:Collective nouns]]

----

==Scots==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[gangan]]'', with inflected forms from ''[[gan|gān]]'' ( > English ''[[go]]'').

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/gɑŋ/}}

===Verb===
{{sco-verb|gangs|gaun|gaed|gaen}}

# To [[go]].
#:''And I will love thee still, my dear''
#:''Till a' the seas '''gang''' dry.'' - [[w:Robert Burns|Robert Burns]] - ''A Red, Red, Rose''

----

==Indonesian==

===Noun===
'''gang'''
{{rfv-sense|Is this actually Indonesian?}}
#Alleyway, [[alley]], narrow [[street]]. A narrow pathway bound by walls on both sides.
#:*gang buntu &mdash; ''dead-end alley''
#An organized crime group
#A group of people with distinct identity such as high school friend group. See also [[geng]].

===Verb===
'''gang'''
{{rfv-sense|Is this actually Indonesian?}}
#To form a gang group.

[[Category:Indonesian nouns]]
[[Category:Indonesian verbs]]

[[et:gang]]
[[fr:gang]]
[[ko:gang]]
[[io:gang]]
[[it:gang]]
[[nl:gang]]
[[pl:gang]]
[[ru:gang]]
[[fi:gang]]
[[ta:gang]]
[[vi:gang]]
[[zh:gang]]