{{see|Gay}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From Old (and modern) French ''[[gai]]'', of uncertain origin.  Possibly from Latin ''[[gaudium]]'' ‘joy’.  ([[w:Friedrich Christian Diez|Friedrich Christian Diez]] has suggested that it comes from Middle High German.  The sense of "homosexual" is said by some to have come from an Arabic word via French; it is also said to come from the word's older sense of "dissolute".)

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ɡeɪ/}}<br>
* {{AHD|/gā/}}<br>
* {{SAMPA|/<tt>geI</tt>/}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪ|-eɪ]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# {{dated}} [[happy|Happy]], [[joyful]], and [[lively]].
#:''It's a wonderfully '''gay''' morning!''
# {{dated}} [[festive|Festive]], [[bright]], or [[colourful]].
#:''Don we now our '''gay''' apparel'' -- (''Deck the Halls'' [http://www.hymnsandcarolsofchristmas.com/Hymns_and_Carols/deck_the_halls.htm])
#:''Pennsylvania Dutch include the plain folk and the '''gay''' folk.''
# [[homosexual|Homosexual]].
# {{colloquial}} Characteristic of [[homosexual]] [[appearance]] or [[behavior]] (often in a [[stereotypical]] [[sense]]).
#:''That tight leather clothing looks a bit '''gay'''.''
# [[feminine|Feminine]] behavior, or, non-[[masculine]] behavior associated with females.
#{{pejorative}} {{slang}} Annoying, boring, negative, unappealing; disliked.
#: ''[Y]ou or someone you know has declared something gay in the last week. Not gay as in homosexual, but gay in that grade-school "That is so gay!" way, i.e. lame, wrongheaded, queer in the original sense.  This is happening all around you. That woman's hairdo? '''Gay.''' That book jacket? '''Gay.''' The fact that Dick and Lynne Cheney won't talk about their lesbian daughter? '''Gay''' '''gay''' '''gay'''.'' -- Nancy Updike [http://www.salon.com/people/feature/2000/09/14/gaygaygay/index.html].
#: ''This game is gay, let's play a different one.''

====Usage notes====
*''Gay'' is almost exclusively used today in the sense of ''homosexual'' and the related senses.  The earlier uses of ''festive'', ''colorful'' and ''bright'' can still be found, but have fallen out of fashion and are liable to be misunderstood; though if used in a way that suggests that a fashion is common among homosexuals, the two meanings do not contradict.
*''Gay'' is preferred to ''homosexual'' by many gay (homosexual) people as their own term for themselves, claiming that ''homosexual'' is dated and evokes a time when ''homosexuality'' was considered a mental illness by the mental health community.

====Translations====
;happy, joyful and lively
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[gai]], [[gaia]]
*Danish: [[glad]], [[livlig]]
*Dutch: [[vrolijk]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[gaja]]
*Finnish: [[iloinen]], [[eläväinen]], [[hilpeä]]
*French: [[gai]] ''m'', gaie ''f''
*German: [[fröhlich]], [[lustig]], [[ausgelassen]]
*Hebrew: [[עליז]] ''m'', [[עליזה]] ''f''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[gaudiose]]
*Hungarian: [[boldog]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gaio]] ''m'', gaia ''f'', [[lieto]] ''m'', lieta ''f'', [[allegro]] ''m'', allegra ''f'', [[felice]] ''m,f''
*Japanese: [[嬉しい]], [[楽しい]]
*Norwegian: [[festlig]], [[glad#Norwegian|glad]], [[livlig]],
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[خوش حال]]}} (khosh-hall)
*Portuguese: [[alegre]], [[feliz]], [[contente]]
*Russian: [[весёлый]] (vesyólyj)
*Swedish: [[glad#Swedish|glad]]
*Spanish: [[feliz]]
*Turkish: [[neşeli]] [[:tr:neşeli|(tr)]], [[canlı]] [[:tr:canlı|(tr)]]
{{bottom}}

;festive, bright, colorful/colourful
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[gai]], [[gaia]]
*Danish: [[sjov]], [[farverig]]
*Finnish: [[iloinen]], [[korea#Finnish|korea]]
*French: [[gai]] ''m'', gaie ''f''
*German: [[bunt]]
*Hungarian: [[boldog]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[gaudiose]]
*Italian: [[gaio]], [[allegro]]
*Japanese: [[派手な]]
*Norwegian: [[morsom]], [[festlig]], [[fargerik]]
*Portuguese: [[festivo]], [[vívido]]
*Russian: [[яркий]] (yárkij - ''vivid''), [[цветной]] (tsvetnój - ''colourful'')
*Turkish: [[parlak]] [[:tr:parlak|tr]], [[canlı]] [[:tr:canlı|tr]], [[:tr:şen|şen]], [[iç açıcı]] [[:tr:iç açıcı|tr]], [[renkli]] [[:tr:renkli|tr]]
{{bottom}}

;homosexual
{{top}}
*[[Afrikaans]] gay.
*[[Arabic]]: [[لوطي]] ''m'', [[سحاقية]] ''f''
*[[Catalan]]: [[gai]]
*Chinese: [[同性戀]], [[同性戀者]], (''slang'') [[同志]]
*Danish: [[bøsse]] (''men''), [[lesbisk]] (''women''), [[homoseksuel]]
*Dutch: [[homoseksueel]], [[homofiel]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[samseksema]], [[samseksema|samseksama]], [[geja]]
*Finnish: [[homo#Finnish|homo-]], [[homoseksuaalinen]]
*French: gai, gay, [[homo#French|homo]]
*German: [[homosexuell]], [[schwul]] (''men''), [[lesbisch]] (''women'')
*Hebrew: [[הומו]] ''m'', [[לסבית]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[meleg]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: gay, [[omosessuale]], [[frocio]], [[finocchio]], [[checca]]
*Japanese: [[同性愛]], [[ゲイ]]
*Norwegian: [[homosexuell]], [[homo]], [[homse]], [[soper]]
*Portuguese: [[bicha]], [[veado]] {{m}}= [[homossexual]]; [[Anglicism]]: [[gay]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[همجنس گرا]]}} (hamjens-garaa)
*Russian: [[гей]] (gej), [[лесбиянка]] (lezbijánka), [[голубой]] (golubój), [[розовая]] (rózovaja), [[педик]] (pédik) ''m'', [[пидарас]] (pidarás) ''m'', [[педрило]] (pedrílo) ''m''
*Serbian (latin): [[peder]], [[lezbeljka]], [[homosexualac]]
*Scottish Gaelic: [[co-sheòrsach]]
*Swedish: [[homosexuell]], [[bög]]
*Spanish: gay
*Turkish: [[homo]] [[:tr:homo|tr]], [[homoseksüel]] [[:tr:homoseksüel|tr]], [[ibne]] [[:tr:ibne|tr]] (rude)
{{bottom}}

;typical of homosexual appearance, etc
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[gai]]
*Finnish: [[homo#Finnish|homo-]]
*French: gai, gay, [[homo#French|homo]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[schwul]] (''men'')
*Italian: gay, [[finocchio]]
*Norwegian: [[homo]], [[homsete]]
*Russian: [[манерный]] (manérnyj - ''camp''), [[голубой]] (golubój)
{{bottom}}

;slang: boring, unappealing, bad, low quality
{{top}}
*German: [[schwul]](schwul''er'' is a slang-term for "homosexual")
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ださい]], [[つまらない]]
*Portuguse: [[chato]], [[pouco atraente]], [[ruim]], [[farjuto]] OR [[fajuto]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate tables above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Swedish: [[glad#Swedish|glad]], [[lustig]] (1); [[grann]] (2); [[homosexuell]], [[homo]], gay (3, 4, 5); (''male''): [[bögig]] (5)
*[[Volapük]]: [[lefredik]] (1, 2), [[otgeniälik]] (3)

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#a [[homosexual]] (most often a male homosexual but sometimes applied to female homosexuals, who are also called lesbians).

====Usage notes====
*Some homosexuals may prefer not to be referred to by this term, feeling that being known as "gays" depersonalises them and reduces them to little more than their sexual orientation.  The terms they prefer use ''gay'' as an adjective only, as in "gay men".

<!--That is your point of view.  Whatever you might believe, the usage note does reflect the feelings of many gay people.  Please note that information in Wiktionary is intended to be non-partisan.  - Paul G, 3 August 2004, 18:30 UTC
However, the use of '''gay''' as a noun seems no different from any other noun applied to people, like '''American''', '''coach''', '''fan''', '''driver'''; no one seriously believes that a person described by these nouns gets reduced to '''only''' that description.
-->

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[гей]]
*Danish: [[bøsse]], [[homo]] (''slang'')
*Dutch: [[homo]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[gejo]] , [[samseksemulo]]
*Finnish: [[homo#Finnish|homo]], [[homoseksuaali]] (''gender-neutral''), gay, [[gei]] (''urban colloquial'')
*French: gai, gay ''m'', [[homo]] ''m'', [[lesbienne]] ''f'' (''female'')
*German: [[Homosexueller]] (''gender-neutral''), [[Schwuler]] ''m'', [[Lesbierin]] ''f'' (''formal''), [[Lesbe]] ''f'' (''informal'')
*Hebrew: [[הומו]] ''m'', [[לסבית]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[meleg]]
*Italian: gay ''m'', [[lesbica]] ''f'' (''female'')
*Polish: [[gej]] ''m'', [[lesbijka]] ''f''
*Portuguese: 1. male = [[bicha]], [[veado]] {{m}}; 2. female = [[lésbica]] {{f}}, ([[slang]]), ([[vulgar]]): [[sapatão]]{{m}}
*Romanian: [[homosexual]] ''m'', [[homo]] ''m'', [[poponar]] ''m'', [[lesbiană]] ''f'' (''female''), [[lesbi]] ''f'' (''female'')
*[[Scots Gaelic]]: ''Vulgar'' [[gille-tòine]] ''m'', [[leasbach]] ''f'', [[co-sheòrsach]] ''m''/''f''
*Russian: [[педик]] ''m'', [[пидарас]] ''m'', [[педрило]] ''ь''
*Swahili: [[msenge]] (''men: catcher''), [[basha]] (''men: pitcher'')
*Swedish: [[homosexuell]] ''c'', [[bög]] ''c'' (''male''), [[flata]] ''c'' (''female'')
*Spanish: gay ''m'', [[lesbiana]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

===Dictionary notes===
*'''MSN Encarta Dictionary''' lists 5 adjective senses, marking "merry", "bright", "carefree", and "debauched" as ''[[dated]]'', leaving only "homosexual" unmarked.

[[Category:English adjectives that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:Dictionary notes]]
[[Category:Positive words]]

[[es:gay]]
[[fr:gay]]
[[ko:gay]]
[[io:gay]]
[[hu:gay]]
[[pt:gay]]
[[sr:gay]]
[[fi:gay]]
[[vi:gay]]
[[zh:gay]]