==English==
===Etymology===
British dialect ''[[geck]]'' ([[fool]]); compare Dutch ''[[gek]]'' ([[crazy]]) or ''[[gekkie]]'' (crazy person).

===Pronunciation===
*gēk, /ɡiːk/, /<tt>gi:k</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-iːk|Rhymes: -iːk]]

===Noun===
'''geek''' ([[geeks]]) informal

# halo and everquest players that spend their life playing, and create teir own language called 1337 speak.

# (''somewhat dated'') A carnival performer specializing in bizarre and unappetizing behavior.
#: ''I once saw a '''geek''' bite the head off a live chicken.''
# (''colloquial'') An unfashionable or socially undesirable person.
#: ''Why do you hang around with them?  They're just '''geeks'''.''
# (''colloquial'') A person intensely interested in a particular field or hobby, generally at the expense of broader social interaction.  Often used with an attributive noun.
#: ''I was a complete computer '''geek''' in high school, but I get out a lot more now.''
#: ''Most famous actors are really just theater '''geeks''' at heart.''
# (''colloquial'') An expert in a technical field, particularly to do with computers.
#: ''My laptop's locked up again.  I need a '''geek'''.''
#: ''Do you think you need a hardware '''geek''' or a software '''geek'''?''
# (''Australian colloquial'') A look.
#: ''Have a '''geek''' at this''

====Synonyms====
*[[butcher's|butcher’s]] (5)
*[[gander]] (5)

====Derived terms====
*[[geek chic]]
*[[geek code]]
*[[geek out]]
*[[geekery]]
*[[geekly]]
*[[geeky]]

====See also====
*[[dork]]
*[[freak]]
*[[hacker]]
*[[guru]]
*[[loser]]
*[[nerd]]
*[[geek_hag]]

===Verb===
'''to geek'''
# (''AAVE colloquial'') to get high on cocaine.

====Derived terms====
*[[geeked out]]

[[de:geek]]
[[fr:geek]]
[[lt:geek]]
[[ru:geek]]
[[fi:geek]]
[[vi:geek]]
[[zh:geek]]