<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="afd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]][[Template:Afd|.]]'''<br />
Please share your thoughts on the matter at '''[[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/<!--Wikipedia Template {{PAGENAME}} -->|this article's entry]]''' on the Articles for Deletion page.<br />
You are welcome to edit this article, but please do not blank this article or remove this notice while the discussion is in progress. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to deletion|Guide to Deletion]].</div>
<!--Wikipedia Category [[Category:Pages for deletion]] -->
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->

<h2>&#147;Get up the yard!&#148;</h2>

<h4>Definition</h4>

In [[Ireland]], this widespread, insulting exclamation may mean various things depending on context and nuance, but the primary meanings are:

* Get lost!
* Nonsense!
* I disagree
* I don't believe you

<h4>Delivery</h4>

The properly-flavoured, original [[Dublin]] pronunciation is '''giddup de yaard'''. A more careless version, '''gerrup de yaard''', has been derived, the latter being limited to Dublin only. 

''Giddup'' is said in a quick rising tone, ''de yaard'' in a slower falling tone. ''Yaard'' must be harsh, stressed and dragged out. Therefore, ''giddup'' is uttered in a tone of injury, defensiveness, or outrage followed by ''de yaard'' intoned as scorn. Once mastered and correctly delivered, it is implacably dismissive and hostile.

It is often given added kick during launch by the phrasing, Would you get up the yard, thus: '''Wujja giddup de yaard!''' More emphatically, it is offered as: '''Wujja ''ever'' giddup de yaard!''' The strongly stressed ''ever'' denotes enhanced frustration.

Usually spat in reaction to something said, it operates best as a violent, caustic ejaculation.

Like many insults, of course, it may be used in a cordial manner between agreeable friends.

<h4>Genesis</h4>

The earliest usage may be traced to a primary school in Dublin.

Initially, in the 1960s, the phrase meant what it literally denoted: it was a command to get up the yard, the school yard at St. Pius X National School in [[Templeogue]], Dublin.

This young school in a new suburb consisted of a number of temporary, prefabricated buildings which were used as classrooms. These &#147;prefabs&#148; were arranged beside and behind the local church, St. Pius X, on College Drive.

Permanent buildings to accommodate the school were later completed 500 metres as the crow flies from the original site, at Fortfield Park, in 1968.

During breaks from class, children playing in the original schoolyard surrounding the church were not allowed to frequent the end of the yard that joined the road, because of motor traffic. 

Two older students were appointed to stand during breaks at either side of the yard to corral their younger peers. When running children crossed the invisible line between the two sentries, they were shouted at to ''Get up the yard!'' Giddy children often shouted the same phrase right back as a taunting reflex. 

<h4>Evolution</h4>

The phrase was in daily use and it evolved immediately and spontaneously among the children into an all-purpose verbal rejection and insult. 

<h4>Too Late The Gates</h4>

The permanent new school buildings at Fortfield Park opened for business in September 1968. This schoolyard had large, red gates to prevent children from running out onto the road. Although ''Get up the yard'' was suddenly obsolete as a formal warning within the school, its catchy, mutated form was poised to escape with alacrity into the culture at large, gate or not.

<h4>Distribution</h4>

The first graduates of this primary school infiltrated a number of secondary schools around Dublin in late 1970, carrying the formula with them. The whole city was rapidly overcome by the phrase within one or two years. Moreover, youngsters throughout Ireland were affected by the mid-1970s when the idiom travelled. Words which began as an order had caught on as rebuff.

<h4>Culprit</h4>

If proper school-building funds had been available from the start the language would not have been enriched by this backslap. Its genesis was economic. The Minister for Education responsible at the time for school-building funds was [[Donagh O'Malley]].

== See Also ==
* [[Hiberno-English]]