==English==
===Transitive verb===
'''to get off'''

#To move from being on (something) to not being on it.
#:'''''Get off''' your chair and help me.''
#To move (something) from being on (something else) to not being on it.
#:''Get that dog off the furniture!''
#To [[disembark]] from (something).
#:''You '''get off''' the train at the third stop.''
#(''slang'') To [[excite]]; to give [[pleasure]] to <!--move to "get off on"?-->
#: I don't '''get off''' on champagne.''
#To [[stop]] (doing something), to [[desist]] from (doing something).
#: ''This is where you '''get off''' ordering me about!''

====Synonyms====
*(1):
*(2): [[get down]] from
*(3): [[disembark]] from, [[leave]]
*(4): [[stop]], [[desist]] from, [[refrain]] from, [[quit]], [[end]]

====Translations====
*French: (1): ; (2): (''an object'') [[descendre]]; (''a person or animal'') [[faire]] [[descendre]]; (3): [[descendre]] de; (4): ; (5): [[arrêter]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''to get off''' (''see transitive verb for inflections'')

#To move from being on (something) to not being on it.
#:''You'll fall off that wall if you don't '''get off'''.''
#To stop touching or interfering with something or someone.
#:''Don't tickle me - '''get off'''!''
#To disembark.
#:''When we reach the next stop, we'll '''get off'''.''
#(''slang'') To have sex.
#:''Alice and Bob are '''getting off''' in the bedroom.''
#to [[incur]] (mild) [[consequences]] 
#:''The vandal '''got off''' easy, with only a fine.''

====Synonyms====
*(1): [[get down]]
*(2): [[stop]], [[desist]], [[refrain]], [[leave alone]], [[let alone]]
*(3): [[disembark]], [[detrain]] (''from a train''), [[debus]] (''from a bus''), [[deplane]] (''from an aircraft'')
*(4): [[cop off]] <!--etc-->

====Translations====
*French: (1): [[descendre]]; (2): [[arrêter]]; (3): [[descendre]]
*Italian: (1): [[scendere]]; (2): [[smettere]]; (3): [[scendere]]

===Related terms===
*[[get off with]]
*[[get off on]]


[[Category:English phrasal verbs]]
[[Category:English idioms]]