==English==
===Noun===
'''ghost''' (''plural'' '''[[ghosts]]''')

<!-- The first four definitions are from Webster's 1913. -->
#(''obsolete'') The spirit; the soul of man.
#:''Then gives her grieved '''ghost''' thus to lament.'' &mdash; Spenser
# The disembodied soul; the soul or spirit of a deceased person; a spirit appearing after death; an apparition; a specter.
#:''The mighty '''ghosts''' of our great Harrys rose.'' &mdash; Shakespeare.
#:''I thought that I had died in sleep/And was a blessed '''ghost'''.'' &mdash; Coleridge
#Any faint shadowy semblance; an unsubstantial image; a phantom; a glimmering.
#:''not a '''ghost''' of a chance''
#:''the '''ghost''' of an idea''
#:''Each separate dying ember wrought its '''ghost''' upon the floor.'' &mdash; Poe
#A false image formed in a telescope, camera, or other optical device by reflection from the surfaces of one or more lenses.
#An unwanted image similar to and overlapping or adjacent to the main one on a television screen, caused by the transmitted image being received both directly and via reflection.
#A [[ghostwriter]].

====Synonyms====
*(''soul''): [[soul]], [[spirit]]
*(''spirit appearing after death''): [[apparition]], [[phantom]], [[specter]]/[[spectre]]
*(''faint shadowy semblance''): [[glimmer]], [[glimmering]], [[glimpse]], [[hint]], [[inkling]], [[spark]], [[suggestion]]
*(''false image in an optical device''):
*(''false image on a television screen''):
*(''ghostwriter''): [[ghostwriter]]

====Translations====

'''soul'''
''See'' '''[[soul]]'''

'''spirit appearing after death'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[fantôme]] ''m'', [[spectre#French|spectre]] ''m''
*Italian: [[fantasma#Italian|fantasma]] ''m'', [[spettro]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Spanish: [[fantasma#Spanish|fantasma]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''faint shadowy semblance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''false image in an optical device'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''false image on a television screen'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''ghostwriter'''
''See'' '''[[ghostwriter]]'''

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Bulgarian: [[привидение]]
*[[Chemehuevi]]: [[ɨ'nɨp]](i) (2)
*Chinese: [[鬼魂]], [[幽灵]]
*Danish: [[spøgelse]] ''n'', [[genfærd]] ''n''; [[ånd]] ''c''
*{{fi}}: [[kummitus]], [[henki]]
*German: [[Geist]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[Phantom]] (n.), [[Gespenst]] (n.)
*Hungarian: [[kísértet]] (2), [[szellem]], [[hazajáró lélek]]; [[lélek]]; [[hamis vonal]]
*Japanese: [[幽霊]] ([[ゆうれい]]), [[亡霊]] (ぼうれい), [[化け物]]　([[ばけもの]])
*[[Maricopa]]: [[ʼish nyoym]] (2)
*[[O'odham]]: [[cukut]] (2)
*Russian: [[привидение]], [[призрак]], [[фантом]]
*Slovene: [[duh]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[senca]] ''f'' (3, means 'shadow')
*Turkish: [[hayalet]]

===Derived terms===
*[[ghostly]]
*[[ghostwriter]]
*[[Holy Ghost]]

===See also===
*[[apparition]]
*[[ghoul]]
*[[phantom]]
*[[spectre]]

[[it:ghost]]
[[fi:Ghost]]