==English==

{{rank|native|members|fortune|959|glass|silver|winter|expect}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[glæs]]'', cognate with Old Saxon and Old High German ''glas'', which (in OHG) is attested as a gloss for ''electrum'' 'amber'. These words are developed from Proto-Germanic *''glaso-''. Possibly ultimately from the Proto-Germanic root *''gl&#333;-'' 'to shine' (cf. [[glow]]).

===Pronunciation===
[[w:General American|GenAm]] {{IPA|[glæs]}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}
# A solid, transparent [[substance]] made by melting [[sand]] with a mixture of [[soda]], [[potash]] and [[lime]].
#: ''The tabletop is made of '''glass'''.''
# A [[vessel]] (especially one made of glass) from which [[drink]]s may be drunk.
#: ''Fill my '''glass''' with milk please.''
# The quantity of liquid contained in such a vessel.
#: ''Would you like a '''glass''' of milk.''
# {{physics}} [[Amorphous]] (non-[[crystalline]]) substance.
#: ''A popular myth is that window '''glass''' actually is an extremely viscous liquid.''
# A [[mirror]].
#: ''She adjusted her lipstick in the '''glass'''.''
# {{cattag2|Basketball|Colloquial}} The [[backboard]].
#: ''He got the rebound off of the '''glass'''.''
# {{icehockey}} The clear protective screen surrounding a hockey rink.
#: ''He fired the outlet pass off the '''glass'''.''

====Translations====

'''substance'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[staklo#Bosnian|staklo]] {{n}}
*Chinese: [[玻璃]] (bō lí)
*Croatian: [[staklo#Croatian|staklo]] {{n}}
*Czech: [[sklo]] ''n''
*Danish: [[glas]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[glas]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[lasi#Finnish|lasi]]
*French: [[verre]] ''m''
*German: [[Glas]] [[:de:Glas|(de)]] ''n''
*Greek: [[γυαλί]] [ʝa.ˈli] ''n'', [[ύαλος]] [ˈi.a.ˌlo̞s] ''f'', [[ύελος]] [ˈi.e̞.ˌlo̞s] ''f''
*Hungarian [[üveg]]
*Irish: [[gloine]] ''f4''
*Hebrew: [[זכוכית]] /zhuhit/ ''f''
*Italian: [[vetro]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[ガラス]] (garasu, [[硝子]])
{{mid}}
*Latvian: [[stikls]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[szkło]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[vidro]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[sticlă]] ''f''
*Russian: [[стекло]] [[:ru:стекло|(ru)]] (st<sup>j</sup>ɛk'lo) ''n''
*Serbian
*:Cyrillic: [[стакло#Serbian|стакло]] {{n}}
*:Latin: [[staklo#Serbian|staklo]] {{n}}
*Slovak: [[sklo#Slovak|sklo]] ''n''
*Slovene: [[steklo]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[vidrio]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[glas]] ''n''
*Tagalog: [[salamin]] ''n''
*Thai: [[แก้ว]]
*Turkish: [[cam]]
{{bottom}}

'''drinking vessel'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[čaša#Bosnian|čaša]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[čaša#Croatian|čaša]] {{f}}
*Czech: [[sklenice]] ''f''
*Danish: [[glas]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[glas]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[lasi#Finnish|lasi]]
*French: [[verre]] [[:fr:verre|(fr)]] ''m''
*German: [[Glas]] [[:de:Glas|(de)]] ''n''
*Greek: [[ποτήρι]] [po̞.ˈti.ri] ''n''
*Irish: [[gloine]] ''f4''
*Hebrew: [[כוס]] (kos) ''f''
*Hungarian: [[pohár]]
*Italian: [[bicchiere]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[グラス]] (gurasu)
*Korean: [[잔]]
*Latvian: [[glāze]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[szklanka]] ''f'', [[kieliszek]] ''m'' (''for alcoholic drinks'')
*Portuguese: [[copo]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[pahar]] ''n''
*Russian: [[стакан]] [[:ru:стакан|(ru)]] /st&#652;'kan/ ''m''
*Serbian
*:Cyrillic: [[чаша#Serbian|чаша]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[čaša#Serbian|čaša]] {{f}}
*Slovak: [[pohár#Slovak|pohár]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[kozarec]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[vaso]] [[:es:vaso|(es)]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[glas]] ''n''
*Tagalog: [[baso]] ''n''
*Thai: [[แก้ว]]
*Turkish: [[bardak]]
*Ukrainian: [[склянка]] /ckl<sup>j</sup>'ank&#601;/ ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''amorphous non-crystalline substance'''
{{top}}
*Czech: [[sklo]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[glas]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[lasi#Finnish|lasi]]
*French: [[verre]] ''m''
*German: [[Glas]] [[:de:Glas|(de)]] ''n''
*Irish: [[gloine]] ''f4''
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ガラス]] (garasu)
*Polish: [[szkło]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[vidrio]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[glas]] ''n''
*Tagalog: [[salamin]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

'''mirror'''
''See [[mirror]]''

===Adjective===
'''glass'''  (''no'' {{compar}} ''or'' {{superl}})
# {{colloquial}} Fragile.
#: ''He has a '''glass''' ankle.''

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|gla|ss|}}
# {{colloquial}} To strike (someone), particularly in the face, with a drinking glass with the intent of causing injury.

===Quotations===
* '''1987,''' John Godber, ''Bouncers'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=f6-WVMj0qCUC&pg=PA19&lpg=PA19&sig=NzO0yHs5eqCDoOPewNE31SvzBBw]
*:JUDD. Any trouble last night?
*:LES. Usual. Couple of punks got '''glassed'''.
* '''2002,''' Geoff Doherty, ''A Promoters Tale'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=f6cHAVAMwk8C&pg=PA72&lpg=PA72&sig=NN6mhVE1htG-CUB-GekL3ZWPIMw]
*: I often mused on what the politicians or authorities would say if they could see for themselves the horrendous consequences of someone who’d been '''glassed''', or viciously assaulted.
* '''2003,''' Mark Surdy, ''Pulp'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=sdF52lBdu3AC&pg=PA139&lpg=PA139&sig=o2nzWpBQX4v0Csr5DLGgTJrCy5c]
*: One night he was in this nightclub in Sheffield and he got '''glassed''' by this bloke who’d been just let out of prison that day.

===Interjection===
'''glass'''
# {{basketball}} A warning called out to alert teammates that a shot is about to rebound off the backboard.
#: ''The point guard launched a wobbly attempt at a three-pointer and immediately called "Glass!"''

===Derived terms===
{{top}}
*[[glasses]]
*[[glasshouse]]
{{mid}}
*[[glassy]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[glasses]]
*[[w:Glass|Wikipedia article on glass]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''glass'''

#[[ice cream]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:glass]]
[[es:glass]]
[[fr:glass]]
[[io:glass]]
[[it:glass]]
[[hu:glass]]
[[ja:glass]]
[[pl:glass]]
[[ru:glass]]
[[fi:glass]]
[[sv:glass]]
[[ta:glass]]
[[zh:glass]]