==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''glotoun, glotun'', {{F.}} ''glouton'', from {{L.}} ''gluto, glutto.''

{{webster}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# Gluttonous; [[greedy]]; gormandizing.
#: ''"A '''glutton''' monastery in former ages makes a hungry ministry in our days."''  -Fuller.

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1500s=1597}}
*'''1597''' — [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:The Second Part of King Henry the Fourth|2 Henry IV]] i 3''
*:So, so, thou common dog, didst thou disgorge<br>Thy '''glutton''' bosom of the royal Richard

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One who [[eats]] [[voracious]]ly, or to [[excess]]; a [[gormandizer]].
# ''(Figurative):'' One who gluts himself.
#:"'''Gluttons''' in murder, wanton to destroy."  -Granville.
#{{zoology}} A [[carnivorous]] [[mammal]] (Gulo luscus), of the family Mustelidæ, about the size of a large badger.  It was formerly believed to be inordinately voracious, whence the name; the wolverene.  It is a native of the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia.

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1800s=1860 1878}}
*'''c.1860''' — [[w:Emily Dickinson|Emily Dickinson]], ''[[s:Hope_is_a_subtle_Glutton_--|Hope is a subtle Glutton]]''
*:Hope is a subtle '''Glutton''' / He feeds upon the Fair
*'''1878''' — [[w:Thomas Hardy|Thomas Hardy]], ''[[s:The Return of the Native|The Return of the Native]]''
*:"A good few indeed, my man," replied the captain. "Yes, you may make away with a deal of money and be neither drunkard nor '''glutton'''."

====See also====
*[[glutton for punishment]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# ''(obsolete):'' To [[glut]]; to eat voraciously.
#:"'''Gluttoned''' at last, return at home to pine."  -Lovelace.
#:"Whereon in Egypt '''gluttoning''' they fed."  -Drayton.

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1500s=1598}}
*'''1598''' — [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:Sonnet 75 (Shakespeare)|Sonnet 75]]''
*:Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day, / Or '''gluttoning''' on all, or all away.

===Related terms===
*[[gluttonous]]
*[[gluttonously]]
*[[gluttony]]

[[pl:glutton]]
[[zh:glutton]]