==English==
===Etymology===
As anyone learning English, as well as any native speaker who thinks about English with any frequency knows, is highly irregular, with the principal parts being go, went, gone. The pa. pple. is not as irregular; we recognize the sound form shake, shook, shaken. Rather, it is the preterit form that raises eyebrows; it seems not to be related to go at all, save in terms of meaning. For once, this rather commonsensical guess proves to be right, for went was in no way related to go initially, save in meaning. Went comes from wendan in OE, from which we also get wend. When someone says that “I’m wending my way home,” what he or she means is “I’m going home.” One might be forgiven for thinking that go’s irregularities in the preterit end here, but this is not so. The OED views it as possible that go existed originally only in the present stem and that all past forms, be they preterit or past participial, are later additions or modifications. The earliest recorded OE preterit indicative forms can be arranged in the following table, with the acute accent (or circumflex) representing a long vowel, all with the sense “I/he/etc/ went.”

ic ------------- éode 		wé -- éodedon	      ðu --------- éodedest		gé  -- éodedon
hé/héo/hit --- éodede 		híe -- éodedon

Now that we know what the initial indicative preterit form was in OE, we can investigate whence it itself came. When one looks at éode, in all its conjugated forms, it is not surprising to see all the –d’s, for these are the familiar Germanic dental suffixes. The root itself éo came from the unattested OTeut. *ijjôm (Goth. has iddja) which was itself a past tense form of the PIE root yâ, (go). Specifically, it was either imperfect or aorist. (The aorist tense expressed momentary action in the past, while the imperfect, continual action in the past). Yâ itself seems to have come from a PIE form *ei, î, and if this assumption is correct, then it is an exciting discovery indeed, for this PIE form is the source of the Latin îre (go, pres inf.) (which is simply the î followed by a standard Latin infinitive ending). The OED does not discuss this, but the 4th Edition of the American Heritage dictionary does in its appendix of IE stems, drawing heavily on Pokorny’s Indogermanishes etymologisches Worterbuch. (page 293) If my knowledge of German were vastly improved, this would be an interesting source to investigate. Incidentally, îre is the source of many English words, words as desprite as introit, preterit, and ambition. I can afford to discuss the latter’s etymology due to its brevity and to the fact that it interests me.
	
Ambîre means “to go around,” and later, the sense was changed to mean “to go around for votes.” If someone went around for votes, he was literally ambitus (the pa. pple), which, through regular L.Latin and A.French processes (which will not be dealt with here) turned into ambitious. Obviously, one who went around for votes would have ambition, desire to succeed, etc.

	Returning to English, our now-familiar éode became, in ME, variously 3ede, yede, and yode. By the 15th cen. in southern England, wende (wend) had become synonymous with go, but its infinitive and present tense forms had ceased to be in frequent use. With a waning, morphing preterit tense (yode), go was ripe to receive a new preterit, the preterit of wende, which turned out to be the familiar went. In Scotland and in the dialects of northern England, yede was also superceded, but by gaed, which was produced by adding a regular dental suffix to the regional variant of go. Went made it into Standard English because southern England was to become the politically, culturally and economically central region of England in modern British history. An interesting side-note is that Spencer used yede to mean “go” in some instances, with its preterit form of yode but this was dialectical.

	Having treated the archaic preterit forms, it now remains to treat the history of wend, the source of current preterit form. As mentioned previously, went came from wend which came from wendan. Based on numerous Germanic cognates, (particularly Goth. wandjan), the existence of the PIE root *wand- is postulated. This root would be the preterit stem of windan. The relationship between windan and wendan needs to be briefly addressed. A note before, though – I will be using OE infinitive forms, though some of the words I will be discussing are not attested and predate OE, and had similar, though not identical, infinitive endings.

	The original form from which we get went is windan. This verb is the source of the modern verb, wind, wound, wound. The original preterit of windan was *wand-, and windan had a causative form, wendan (meaning “to cause to wind,” or “to cause to become wound”). So, went is derived from wendan which is derived from windan. Therefore, we should investigate the etymology of windan.
	
	After a rather extensive search of several dictionaries, etymological appendices, with special emphasis given to wind, wand, wander, and other etymologically related words, the results are somewhat disappointing. I had hoped to find a PIE root from which all these words can be traced, but after reading all the roots beginning in w- and gw-, it seems that there is no reconstructed root. Perhaps there is one in Porkorny, but as I stated earlier, my German isn’t good at all. Under wand (n.) the OED simply states that words like wend, wind, wand, and wander all have a common IE root, and that this root is related to the idea of turning. (note – wand n. originally meant a supple switch, and is related to the word from which whip is derived. The most important IE root (found in Pokorny 3.  er- 1152.) is treated in one of the Am. Heritage’s etymological indices under wer-2. Though this root also carries with it the idea of turning, none of its English descendents are the words for which we are looking. Many turning-related words do come from wer-2 (which Porkorny calls  er-). For instance, we have wrist, wreath, writhe, (all of which involve turning), wring, wrench, and worm are only the most obvious descendents of this root. So, all we can say is that to wind is derived from a similar PIE root to wer-2.

	Though it would be nice to know more, we do know that the root beginning in *w- presupposed turning or motion. Though we know to wind is now most frequently used in the context of turning an object (e.g. “She wound the clock.”) and above all else, transitively, and though this use is very old, the intransitive usage wind is probably just as old. Though originally wend meant to cause to wind (and the winding often being done in an intransitive sense), due to the similarity of these two words, they have been confused for at least a thousand years, and have thus influenced each other’s developments. For much of their histories, wend and wind have had the sense of going, and thus it is not surprising that wend eventually came to have the sense of go.

	Having looked at the current and former preterits of go (éode and went), we now turn to the infinitive form of go, the part of the modern verb with the least complicated history. After dealing with this long and complex history of the preterit forms for go, we must remember that the word did not have to have such a complex history. In German, it is simply ging, which comes from the infinitive form (related to OE gân) gehen. Finally, we will deal with the pa. pple., gone.
	
	Turning once again to the Am Heritage’s IE roots appendix, we find under the entry ghê- the origin of the infinitive form, go. Ghê- had the sense of “To release, let go; to be released (in the middle voice, this time), go. From ghê, we get the OE gân (to go). Though the 1st person present indicative in OE was gá, aside from an unsurprising shift from an a to an o, there has been little change in the infinitive form of this word for its entire history, a very rare thing for such a common word, and one used for so long.
	
	The case of gone is a little more difficult. The OE pa. pple. was  egán ,but in order to understand fully the history of the pa. pple. we need to look at the now obsolete English verb, gang. Gang means “to walk” or “to go,” and is possibly the source of the past participles gone and Germ. gegangen (which means gone). According to this theory, the preterit of a form of Gang eventually became past participles in English, German, and other related languages. The question arises of the relationship between gang and gân. The OED proposes five theories, and it would be useless to reproduce them here. Needless to say, there is little consensus. There is one theory, that if true, would be fascinating. A scholar named Kludge has contented that *ga-îm is the source of both go and gone, and that the î comes from the PIE root ei-, which, as previously noted, is the source of Latin îre. It would be fascinating if this were true, but it is but one of many theories that have been presented, and there is no scholarly consensus. One interesting theory is that gone and gegangen are both nasalized reduplications of ghê-, and another is that the relationship of stand and stay influenced go and gone very early on. 

	At last, we see that go (historically, anyway) is derived from at least 3 PIE roots: *ghê (from which we get go, and possibly gone), *ei, î, the source of éonde, and a root beginning in *w- from which we eventually get went, through windan and then wendan. Though we only use two of the derivatives of these roots today, go and went (the case of gone is very complicated and would require at least the length of this entire journal to treat adequately, as well as the consultation of several of Porkorny’s roots), we see that this verb’s history is indeed a rich one.

=== Pronunciation ===
*gō, /gəʊ/, /g@U/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-əʊ|Rhymes: -əʊ]]

=== Verb ===
'''go''', third person singular '''[[goes]]''', present participle '''[[going]]''', past '''[[went]]''', past participle '''[[gone]]'''

# [[move]] from a [[nearby]] place to [[somewhere]] else, to [[travel]]
#: "Why don't you go with us?"
# [[disappear]]
# be [[destroyed]], [[disintegrate]]
# burst into [[laughter]]
# (of a machine) [[work]]
# take a [[turn]] in a [[game]], etc.
#: "It's her turn to go."
# [[urinate]], [[piss]]
#: "I really have to go."
# ''[[Colloquial]]'' [[say]]
#: "So he goes 'Why"', and she goes 'Just because.'"
# make a sound
#: "The cat goes [[meow]], the cow goes [[moo]], and the mongoose goes [[meef]]."


==== Synonyms ====
*[[continue]]
*[[move]]
*[[run]]
*[[wend]]

==== Antonyms ====
*[[come]]
*[[freeze]]
*[[halt]]
*[[stop]]

==== Translations ====
*[[Catalan]]: [[anar]]
*Chinese: [[去]], [[走]], [[达到]] (1), [[消失]] (2), [[运转]] (5), [[小便]] (6)
*Czech: [[jet]] (by vehicle), [[jít]] (by walking) (1) 
*Dutch: [[gaan]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[iri]]
*Filipino: [[magpatuloy]]
*Finnish: [[mennä]]
*French: [[aller]]
*German: [[gehen]], [[fahren]] (''by vehicle'')
*[[Guarani]]: [[ha]]
*Hebrew: [[הלך|הָלַךְ]], [[נסע|נָסַע]]; [[עזב|עָזַב]], [[עבר|עָבַר]]
*Indonesian: [[pergi]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[ir]], [[vader]]
*Italian: [[andare]]
*Japanese: 
** [[行く]] ([[いく]], iku), [[去る]]
** [[いらっしゃる]] (irassharu) (honorific)
** [[参る]] ([[まいる]], mairu) (humble)
*Korean: [[가다]]
*Latin: [[eo]], [[ire]], [[vadere]]
*Portuguese: [[ir]]
*Romanian: [[merge]], [[duce]]
*[[Romanica]]: [[ir]], [[vader]]
*Spanish: [[ir]], [[andar]]
*Swedish: [[gå]] (''on foot''), [[resa]], [[åka]]
*[[Thai]]: pai
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[só]]

=== Noun ===
'''go'''

# a [[turn]] (in a [[game]], etc): ''it's your go''.
# an [[attempt]]: ''I want to have a go''.
# the act of [[urinate|urinating]].
# East-Asian board game.

====Synonyms====
*[[shot]] (2)
*[[try]] (2)
*[[turn]] (1)

==== Translations ====
*Chinese: [[轮到]] (1), [[尝试]] (2)， [[排泄]] (3), [[围棋]] (4)
*French: [[tour]] (1), [[jeu de go]] (4)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[vice]], [[torno]] (1); [[tentativa]] (2)
*Japanese: [[囲碁]], [[碁]] (4)
*Portuguese: [[vez]] ''f'', [[turno]] ''m'' (1); [[tentativa]] ''f'' (2)
*Romanian: [[rând]] ''n'' (1), [[încercare]] ''f'' (2), [[tentativă]] ''f'' (2)
*[[Romanica]]: [[vice]] ''f'', [[torno]] ''m'' (1); [[tentativa]] ''f'' (2)

===Related Terms===
*[[go back]]
*[[goner]]
*[[wend]]

----

== Dutch ==
=== Noun ===
'''go''' ''n''

# East-Asian board game

----

== French ==
=== Noun ===
'''go''' ''m''

# East-Asian board game ([[碁]])

===Synonym===
*[[jeu de go]]
[[ja:go]] [[pl:go]]