{{expand}}

A '''god complex''' is a colloquial term used to portray a perceived character flaw as if it were a 'psychological [[complex (psychology)|complex]]'.  The person who is said to have a 'god complex' does not believe he is [[God]], but is said to act so arrogantly that he might as well believe he is a god or appointed to act by a god.  Some people also call it a '''[[Messianic complex]]'''.

Some believe that 'god complexes' are "particularly common in arrogant, highly educated, worldly, or powerful people." [http://www.eurolegal.org/terrorism/terror204.htm]

Some people who are commonly said to have God complexes are: Generals, Judges, Politicians, Clergy members, etc.

==Scholarly research==

There are few academic works specifically addressing god complexes, although a great deal can be found about [[narcissism]].

According to the book ''All Mighty: A Study of the God Complex in Western Man'', by [[Horst Richter]] (ISBN 0897930282), [[authoritarian]] [[compulsion|compulsions]] are related to the [[rebel|rebellious]] stage of childhood development.  Richter argues that the arrested development of such compulsions leads to denial of suffering, self-doubt, and death, and an expectation of [[servile|servility]] for women and minorities.

==Napoleon Bonaparte==

The [[French Revolution]] may well, in the opinion of some, illustrate the destructiveness of arrogant reforms attributable to god complexes.  The purported God-like intention of intellectuals to reinvent the world, and in particular the retroactively claimed god complex of [[Napoleon I of France|Napoleon Bonaparte]], may have been in some opinions the catalyst for the twenty years of war that ensued.

==Concept used to criticize modernity==
A particular use of the God complex is to be found in basic attempts to criticize modern societies. Some groups of people, especially those bound by their own culture to live in a God-based mental universe, usually advance the theory that a collective god complex, rooted in what they call the utopianism of the [[Age of Enlightenment|French Enlightenment]] lies at the basis of Western modern civilization and is considered by some to have led to the reign of terror that afflicted all of Europe beginning in the late 18th century. Details of such theory are available online at this American grassroots political movement website. [http://www.renewamerica.us/analyses/050930hutchison.htm] 

For a defense of the rationale of modern times from a mainstream philosopher, see [[Hans Blumenberg]], "The Legitimacy of the Modern Age" (Frankfurt, 1966 [in German], Cambridge, 1983 [in English]).

==See also==
*[[Dunning-Kruger Syndrome]]

==External links==
* [http://www.mclemee.com/id97.html McLemee.com] - 'The Shrink with a God Complex' Ronald Hayman ''Newsday'', (April 22, 2001) 
* [http://news-service.stanford.edu/news/2003/september10/caligula-910.html News-Service.Stanford.edu] - 'Did Caligula have a God complex?  Stanford, Oxford archaeologists find evidence that depraved tyrant annexed sacred temple', John Sanford (September 10, 2003)
* [http://www.google.com/search?q=cache:vlX_V9SqScUJ:www.apa.org/journals/features/psp7761121.pdf ''Unskilled and Unaware of It: Unskilled and Unaware of It: How Difficulties in Recognizing One's Own Incompetence Lead to Inflated Self-Assessments''], Justin Kruger and David Dunning, Cornell University, ''[[Journal of Personality and Social Psychology]]'', vol 77, no 6, p 1121-1134 (1999) 



[[Category:Psychological conditions]]