==English==
===Etymology===

''[[Old English]]'' '''[[god]]''', ''[[from Old High German]]'' '''[[god]]''', '''[[got]]''',   from [[Proto-Germanic]] '''[[*gothaz]]''', [[Proto-Indo-European]]  '''[[*ghedh-]]''', (to unite, as in sexual intercourse, be associated, be suitable, be good).

===Pronunciation===
*go?od, /??d/, /<tt>gUd</tt>/  Mispelling occurs because of the dfferent pronounciations of vowels.  The words, god, got, and goth are dialectic changes and were used in Brittian and on the Continent.  (See Grimm's rule.)  God, later good, as the church managed to first associate deus with god, then disassociate god with good, was favored in Brittian but was not pronounced the same in Essex, London, or Sussex even in the 20th century.  (These cities are all close to each other.)

===Adjective===
'''good''' ([[better]], [[best]])

#Acting in the interest of good; ethical (''good intentions'').
#Useful for a particular purpose (''it's a good watch'').
#(Of food) edible.
#(Of food) having a particularly pleasant taste.
#(Also of food) healthy, full of vitamins, minerals, etc.
#Pleasant, enjoyable (''a good time'').
#Competent or talented (''a good swimmer'').
#Effective (''a good worker'').
#Favourable (''it's a good omen'', ''we had good weather last weekend'').
#Beneficial, worthwhile (''a good job'').
#(colloq.) With "and", extremely. (''The soup is good and hot.'')
# Goody-goody, lacking in spirit or personality. (''he's so good''.)

====Antonyms====
* [[bad]]
* [[poor]]
* [[evil]]

===Translations===

'''good''' (adj.)
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: [[جيد|جَيِّد]] (jéyyid), [[طيب|طَيِّب]] (ʈáyyib), [[حسن|حَسَن]] (‎ħásan)
*Bulgarian: [[добър]], [[добра]], [[добро]] (dobär, dobra, dobro) ''m/f/n''; [[приятен]], [[приятна]], [[приятно]] (prijaten, prijatna, prijatno) ''m/f/n''
*[[Catalan]]: [[bo]] ''m'', [[bona]] ''f'' [[:ca:bo|(ca)]] 
*Chinese: [[好]] (hăo)
*Czech: [[dobrý]], [[dobrá]], [[dobré]] ''m/f/n''
*Danish: [[god]] ''m'', [[godt]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[goed]], [[goede]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[bona]]
*Finnish: [[hyvä]]
*French: [[bon]] ''m'', [[bonne]] ''f''
*German: [[gut#German|gut]]
*Greek: [[καλός]] (kalós), [[αγαθός]] (agathós)
*[[Guaraní]]: [[porã]]
*Hebrew: [[טוב]] (tov)
*Hungarian: [[jó]]
*Indonesian: [[baik]], [[bagus]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[bon]]
*[[Inuktitut]]: [[pitsiartok]]
*Italian: [[buono]] ''m'', [[buona]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[いい]] (íi), [[良い]] ([[よい]], yói)
*Korean: [[좋은]] (cho-eun)
*Latin: [[bonus]], [[bona]], [[bonum]] ''m/f/n''
*Latvian: [[labs]]
*[[Persian]]: [[خوب]] (χub)
*Polish: [[dobry]], [[dobra]], [[dobre]] ''m/f/n''
*Portuguese: [[bom]] ''m'', [[boa]] ''f''
*[[Quechua]]: [[allin]]
*Romanian: [[bun]] ''m'', [[bună]] ''f''
*[[Romanica]]: [[bono]] ''m'', [[bona]] ''f''
*Russian: [[хороший]], [[хорошая]], [[хорошее]], [[хорошие]] (khoróšij, khoróšaja, khoróšeje, khoróšije) ''m/f/n/pl''
*Slovak: [[dobrý]], [[dobrá]], [[dobré]] ''m/f/n''
*Spanish: [[bueno]] ''m'', [[buena]] ''f''
*Swahili: -[[zuri]]
*Swedish: [[bra#Swedish|bra]], [[god#Swedish|god]]
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[gutpela]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[katu]]
*Turkish: [[iyi]]
*Uzbek: [[яхши]] (yaxshi)
|}
|}

====See also====
*[[best]]
*[[better]]
*[[goodly]]
*[[well]] (adv.)

===Noun===
'''good''' ([[goods]])

#The forces/behaviors that are the enemy of [[evil]]. Usually consists of helping others and general benevolence.
#(''Usually plural'') A commodity; an item that can be traded, an item of commerce. (see [[goods]])
#A result that is [[positive]] in the view of the speaker. <!-- WHAT DOES THIS MEAN? NEEDS A BETTER DEFINITION, OR AT LEAST SOME EXAMPLES! -->

====Antonyms====
*[[evil]] (1)
*[[bad]] (1,3)
*[[service]] (2)
*[[capital]] (2)

====Translations====

'''the forces of good''' (noun)
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: [[الخير|الخَيْر]] (al-khéːr), [[فائدة|فَائِدَة]] (fáː’idah)
*Bulgarian: [[добро]] (dobro) ''n''
*[[Catalan]]: [[bo]] ''m'', [[bona]] ''f''
*Dutch: [[goed]], [[goede]]
*Finnish: [[hyvä]]
*French: [[bon]] ''m'', [[bons]] ''m/pl''
*German: [[Gute]] ''n''
*Greece: [[καλός]] (kalós) ''m''
*Hebrew: [[טוב]] (tuv), [[טוב]] (tov), [[טובה]] (tovah)
*Hungarian: [[jó]]
*Indonesian: [[baik]]
*Interlingua: [[ben]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[いい]] (íi), [[良い]] ([[よい]], yói)
*Korean: [[착함]] (chakham)
*Latin: [[bonum]] ''n'', [[bona]] ''n/pl''
*Latvian: [[labais]] ''m''
*[[Manchu]]: (sain)
*Polish: [[dobro]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[bem]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[bine]], [[bun]] ''n'' 
*[[Romanica]]: [[bono]] ''m'', [[bona]] ''f''
*Russian: [[добро]] (dobró) ''n''
*Spanish: [[bien]] ''m''
*[[Swahili]]: [[uzuri]] ''(noun 11/14)''
*Swedish: [[god]], [[snäll]]
*Turkish: [[iyi]]
|}
|}

====Translations====

'''goods''', '''wares''' (noun)
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: [[بضائع|بَضَائِعُ]] (baɖáː’iʕu), [[سلع|سِلَع]] (sílaʕ), [[بضاعة|بِضَاعَة]] (biɖáːʕah)
*Bulgarian: [[товар]] (tovar) ''m''
*Finnish: [[tavara]]
*French: [[bien]] ''m''
*German: [[Gut]] ''n'', [[Güter]] ''n/pl''
*Greece: [[αγαθά]] (agathá) ''n/pl''
*Hebrew: [[סחורה]] (sekhórah); [[מטען]] (mit‛án)
*Hungarian: [[áru]]
*Indonesian: [[barang-barang]]
*Interlingua: [[ben]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[品物]] ([[しなもの]], shinamonó)
*Korean: [[상품]] (sangpum)
*Latin: [[bona]] ''n/pl''
*Latvian: [[prece]] ''f''
*Polish: [[towar]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[bem]] ''m''
*Russian: [[товар]] (továr) ''m''
*Spanish: [[géneros]] ''m/pl'', [[bienes]] ''m/pl''
*Swahili: [[mali]] ''(noun 9/10)''
*Swedish: [[gods]]
*Turkish: [[mal]]
|}
|}

====Translations====

'''good''' ''(positive result)'' (noun) <!-- WHAT DOES THIS MEAN??? NEEDS A BETTER DEFINITION! -->
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Greece: [[καλός]] (kalós) ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*
|}
|}

[[Category:Positive words]]

[[pl:Good]]