:''See also:'' [[Google]]
{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: /go͞o'gəl/
*[[IPA]]: /ˈguːgəl/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>"gu:g@l</tt>/

===Etymology===
From the name of the company Google, Inc. with particular reference to their  search engine, Google™.  The word is an intentional misspelling of '''[[googol]]'''.

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|googl|e||}}

#To [[search]] for (something) on the [[Internet]] using the Google™ [[search engine]].
#By extension, to search for (something) on the Internet using any [[comprehensive]] search engine.

===Noun===
#An internet search, such as that which is performed on Google
#A quick look (for something or someone), either on the internet or in a place

==Examples==
*"Have you tried googling it?" Lit: Have you looked for it on the internet?
*"I googled him but he wasn't there" Lit: I looked for his name on the net but did not find any references to him.
*"I took a google round the room" Lit: I quickly looked around the room but not too thoroughly.
*"He did a google" Lit: He did a search on the internet.


====Quotations====
*'''2002''': "Googling in [[search]] of an [[apology]] from the former Enron C.E.O...." &mdash; [http://www.nytimes.com/2002/12/28/opinion/28KELL.html?pagewanted=2&todaysheadlines] Editorial, ''New York Times,'' 28 Dec 2002.

*'''2002''': Maid In Manhattan - Jennifer Lopez' [[character]] responds to her son's [[question]] she cannot answer, "Google it."

*'''2002''': Buffy the vampire slayer - Willow uses Google to find out more about a person. (Willow: "Have you googled her yet?", Xander: "Willow, she's 17!") Episode 7x04 "Help", 15 Oct 2002.

====Translations====

'''search by using Google'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[google]]
*Dutch: [[googlen]] or [[googelen]]
*German: [[googeln]]
*Finnish: [[googlata]], [[googlettaa]], [[kuukkeloida]] (''slang'')
*Japanese: [[ググる]] (guguru)
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[guglać]]
*Swedish: [[googla]], [[goggla]]
*Spanish: [[googlear]]
*Catalan: [[googlejar]]
*Icelandic:[[gúgla]]
{{bottom}}

'''search for using any comprehensive search engine'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ググる]] (guguru)
{{bottom}}


===Etymology===

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|googl|e||}}

#(''cricket'') To deliver [[googly|googlies]].
#(''cricket'') To move as a ball in a [[googly]].

====Translations====

'''deliver googlies'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''move a ball in a googly'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
As for the transitive verb.

#(''Internet'') To be locatable in a search of the Internet.
#:''His name googles.''

====Translations====

'''Internet: be locatable in a search of the Internet'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Chinese: (''transliteration'') 孤狗 (gū gǒu) <!--not relevant: "lone dog"-->, 咕鉤 (gū gōu) <!--not relevant: "mumbling hook"-->
*Estonian: googeldama

===Noun===
'''google''' (''plural:'' '''googles''')

#(''Internet'') A unit used for [[hit]]s in Internet searches, one google being one hit.
#:''The word oceanfront has 4,990,000 '''googles''' so it must be a real word.''


====Derived terms====
*[[kilogoogle]]<!-- = 1024 search engine hits-->
*[[megagoogle]]<!--(rare) = 1024 kilogoogles-->

===Derived terms===
*[[googlebomb]]
*[[Google cooking]]
*[[Google Doodle]]
*[[googledork]]
*[[google-proof]]
*[[googles]]
*[[googlewhack]]
*[[googlewhore]] - One who loves all things google and auspiciously promotes their services through discussion to friends/family. "Did you see my Google map yet? I've been googlewhoring it to everybody"
*[[googled]] - Having researched a person, place, or thing on the internet.
*[[googlish]]
*[[googlicious]]

===Related terms===
*[[googol]]
*[[madame linkmonger]]

===See also===
*[[googly]], [[googlie]]

===External links===
<!--Yes, very nice, but this doesn't serve any useful purpose.  Paul G - 2005-05-20
<strong><font color=blue>G</font><font color=red>o</font><font color=yellow >o</font><font color=blue>g</font><font color=green>l</font><font color=red>e</font></strong> -->
#[http://www.Google.com www.google.com]

[[Category:English language]]
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:US]]

[[gu:google]]
[[no:google]]
[[nb:google]]
[[sv:google]]
[[zh:google]]