==Sanskrit==
===Noun===
'''Gopuram'''
#A '''gopuram''' is a tower abutting the entrance to a Hindu temple, typically consisting of an odd number of tiers. The exact number depends on the degree of funding dedicated to the building.
====Etymology====
The word is most commonly seen in English in architectural usage. It is commonly found in English usage in or in reference to Singapore, a place which many Indian residents.

It is speculated on [http://members.tripod.com/jennifer_polan/submissions/gopuram.html http://members.tripod.com/jennifer_polan/submissions/gopuram.html] that the term originates from Sanskr. "go puram" - the "residence of cows", "go" meaning "cows" and "puram" referring to a city, neighborhood, or residence (as '''pura''' in [[Singapore]]). An alternate speculation is that the "go" element abbreviated '''Govinda''' or '''Gopala''', various Hindu titles for the Deity.

These speculations, however, are linguistically and culturally unfounded. The interpretation of "go-puram" as "residence of cows" is probably just popular etymology or a re-sanscritizing "hyper-correction" for tam. "ko-puram" (Tamil has no special g-letter in its alphabet). The established point of view in South Indian studies is as follows: the word ''ko'' (tam. கோ, as written in ''ko-puram'') is an ancient (but not unusual) Dravidian word for "king", this being common imagery for a god as the ruler of a temple (or state). The use of this "God as the king"-motif is normal in ancient South Indian Hinduism (e. g. in the poet-saint Manikkavasagars hymns), and is in a way similar to the corresponding motif in classical Jewish religion. Thus கோ-புரம் (Plural: கோ-புரங்கள், ''kopuraṅkaḷ'') is most probably a Dravidian-Indo-Arian nominal compound meaning "the king's fortification", thus declaring the temple to be the castle-fortress of the god-king. -- [[User:Kavaiyan|Kavaiyan]] 16:20, 2 March 2006 (UTC)