'''Gordon Bennett!''' is a common expression or exclamation in [[British English]] that connotes surprise or shock. A typical usage, for instance, might be "Gordon Bennett! Look at the size of that." A comic-book character, [[Gordon Bennett (character)|Gordon Bennett]], is based on the expression. 

==Origin of the term==
There are several theories as to how the term originated.
===The newspaper-magnate playboy version===

[[James Gordon Bennett, Jr.|James Gordon Bennett, junior,]] is often said to have inspired the expression.
Bennett &mdash; the son of [[James Gordon Bennett, Sr.|James Gordon Bennett, senior]] &mdash; was a widely known [[New York]] [[newspaper]] proprietor and playboy during the late 19th and early 20th centuries who became known for his extravagant lifestyle and behaviour. For example, he arrived late and drunk at a party in the mansion of the family of his fiancée, socialite Caroline May, and then urinated into a fireplace in full view of his hosts.  The engagement was broken off immediately, and the subsequent notoriety caused Bennett to move to [[France]].  This incident appeared in the ''[[Guinness Book of World Records]]'' under "Greatest Engagement [[Faux Pas]]." [[http://www.worldwidewords.org/articles/gordon.htm]]

A variant of the newspaper-mogul story is given by language historian Bill Bryson as follows:

<blockquote>James Gordon Bennett, a newspaper baron, liked to announce his arrival in a restaurant by yanking the tablecloths from all the tables he passed. He would then hand the manager a wad of cash with which to compensate his victims for their lost meals and spattered attire. Though long forgotten in his native land, Bennett and his exploits were once world famous, and indeed his name lives on in England in the cry, "Gordon Bennett!" [[http://homepage.eircom.net/~odyssey/Quotes/History/Bill_Bryson.html]]
</blockquote>
A similar theory has it that "Gordon Bennett was the man who charged Stanley with locating Dr. Livingstone in deepest Africa. Hence the exclamation when you are faced with a ridiculous task." [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/notesandqueries/query/0,5753,-26655,00.html]]

===The oath-softening version===

Some say the phrase is a softening of the expression "God in heaven!" or another way to get around using a stronger oath. [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/notesandqueries/query/0,5753,-26655,00.html]] Compare references to ''Gor blimey!'' at [[http://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=%22gor+blimey%22+origin&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8]].

[[Category:Slang expressions]]