==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[Graff]] ''(obscure)''

===Etymology===
Middle English ''graffe'' < Old French ''[[greffe]]'' ("stylus") < Latin ''[[graphium]]'' ("stylus") < Greek [[γραφείον]] < [[γράφειν]] ("to write"); probably akin to English ''[[carve]]'''. So named from the resemblance of a scion or shoot to a pointed pencil. Compare [[graphic]], [[grammar]].

===Noun===
'''graft'''  (''plural:'' '''[[grafts]]''')
# A small [[shoot]] or [[scion]] of a tree inserted in another tree, the stock of which is to support and nourish it. The two unite and become one tree, but the graft determines the kind of fruit.
# A branch or portion of a tree growing from such a shoot. 
# ''(Surgery)'' A portion of living tissue used in the operation of autoplasty.
# A [[con]] job.
# {{slang}}: A cut of the [[take]] (money).
# {{US}}, {{cattag|Politics}}: A [[bribe]], especially on an ongoing basis. {{uncountable}}

===Translations===
*Dutch: [[ent]] {{m}} (1,2)
*Italian: [[innesto]] {{m}} (1)

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|graft||}}
# To insert (a graft) in a [[branch]] or [[stem]] of another tree; to propagate by insertion in another stock; also, to insert a graft upon.
# ''(Surgery)'' To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion so as to form an organic union.
# To join (one thing) to another as if by grafting, so as to bring about a close union.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*And '''graft''' my love immortal on thy fame! — [[Pope]]
# ''(Nautical)'' To cover, as a ring bolt, block strap, splicing, etc., with a weaving of small cord or rope-yarns.
# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To insert scions from one tree, or kind of tree, etc., into another; to practice grafting.

===Translations===
*Dutch: [[enten]] {{m}} (1,3)
*Italian: [[innestare]] (1,5)
*Swedish: [[stickling]], [[ymp]] (1,2)
[[fr:graft]]