{{attention}}

The '''Gravy Train''' is an idiomatic expression which means to advance successfully without much work input.  It derives from the fact that gravy is a rich food, high in nutritional value, and a train, which can take you somewhere without you having to do anything other than to buy a ticket (or stow away).  The basic idea is that if you are on a train where much gravy is served, not only are you headed somewhere, but the way to get there is easy and full of comfort.

It probably came into wide use during the 1930's, the American Great Depression, when hobos who had lost their jobs were commonly stowing away on trains without paying for a ticket.


Gravy Train is used in a comedical way in [[Cartoon Network]]'s Ed, Edd, and Eddy.  As reinterpreted by an idiot named Mike Marsocci, the gravy train is a time of complete jubilee, in which sometimes you are on the gravy train, and sometimes you are off of it.  A Gravy Monster is a seeker of this Gravy Train, one who would like to stay on it for as much a time as possible.  

Getting on the gravy train is possible in many such ways.  Having financial success or having a hot woman friend are examples.  It can also be brought upon by good grades or a long string of happiness and idiocy.

Expressing your feeling for your gravy train can be done by saying gravy over a 5 second period, extending the GR section of the word.  
 
Gravy Train can be described as an abstract concept more than an object, and is too obscure to be considered a theory or ideal.  This makes Gravy Train a phenomenon in human philosophy.

The Gravy Train is also used as the brand name of a dog food "Gravy Train Dog Food".  The slogan is very interesting to interpret.  
The Gravy Taste Dogs Can't Wait To Finish
Is this because the dog food tastes bad and the dog wants to get the meal over with, or is it just because dogs just plain eat fast?