==English==
===Pronunciation===
*grāv, /ɡreɪv/, /<tt>greIv</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-eɪv|Rhymes: -eɪv]]

===Adjective===
''Comparative'': graver; ''superlative'': gravest.

See [[Grief]]
# Of great weight; heavy; ponderous. ([[Obs.]])
#: His shield grave and great.      --[[w:Chapman]].
# Of importance; momentous; weighty; influential; sedate; serious; -- said of character, relations, etc.; as, grave deportment, character, influence, etc.
#: Most potent, grave, and reverend seigniors. --[[w:Shak]].
#: A grave and prudent law, full of moral equity. --[[W:Milton]].
# Not light or gay; solemn; sober; plain; as, a grave color; a grave face.
# ([[Mus.]]):
:(a) Not acute or sharp; low; deep; -- said of sound; as, a grave note or key.
#:  The thicker the cord or string, the more grave is the note or tone. --- [[W:Moore]]    ([[Encyc.]] of               Music).
:(b) Slow and solemn in movement.
::{Grave accent}. ([[Pron.]]) See the Note under [[Accent]], n., 2.

Usage: {Grave}, {Sober}, {Serious}, {Solemn.} [[Sober]] supposes    the absence of all exhilaration of spirits, and is opposed to gay or flighty; as, sober thought. [[Serious]] implies considerateness or reflection, and is opposed to jocose or sportive; as, serious and important concerns. Grave denotes a state of mind, appearance, etc., which results from the pressure of weighty  interests, and is opposed to hilarity of feeling or vivacity of manner; as, a qrave remark; qrave attire. [[Solemn]] is applied to a case in which gravity is carried to its highest point; as, a solemn admonition;   a solemn promise.
====Synonyms====
*[[solemn]]
*[[sober]]
*[[serious]]
*[[sage]]
*[[staid]]
*[[demure]]
*[[thoughtful]]
*[[sedate]]
*[[weighty]]
*[[momentous]]
*[[important]]

===Verb===
====Transitive====
[[Imp.]] : graved; [[p. p.]]: graven or graved; [[p. pr.]] & [[vb. n.]]: gGraving}. 

[[Cf.]] Grave, [[n.]], [[Grove]], n.
# To dig. ([[Obs.]]) [[w:Chaucer]].
#: He hath graven and digged up a pit.   --[[Ps.]] VII 16 ([[w:Book of Prayer]]).
# To carve or cut, as letters or figures, on some hard substance; to engrave.
#: [[Thou]] shalt take two [[onyx]] stones, and grave on them  the names of the children of Israel.  --[[Ex.]] XXVIII.,9.
# To carve out or give shape to, by cutting with a chisel; to sculpture; as, to grave an image.
#: With gold men may the hearte grave.   --[[w:Chaucer]].
# To impress deeply (on the mind); to fix indelibly.
#: O! may they graven in thy heart remain. --[[w:Prior]].
# To entomb; to bury. ([[Obs.]]) --[[w:Chaucer]].
#: Lie full low, graved in the hollow ground. --[[w:Shak]].
# ([[Naut.]])To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass, etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves or greaves was formerly used for this purpose.

====Intransitive====

#To write or delineate on hard substances, by means of incised lines; to practice engraving.

===Noun===

See grave to carve.

#An excavation in the earth as a place of burial; also, any place of interment; a tomb; a sepulcher. [[Hence]]: [[Death]]; [[destruction]].
#:He bad lain in the grave four days.      --[[w:John]] [[XI]].,17.
#An accent used in French. è is ane with a grave accent

::{Grave wax}, [[adipocere]].

===Suffix===
*[[-grave]]

A final [[syllable]] signifying a ruler, as in landgrave,
margrave. See [[Margrave]].

[[ang:Grave]]
[[et:Grave]]
[[fr:grave]]
[[io:Grave]]
[[it:grave]]
[[pl:Grave]]
[[pt:Grave]]