'''Great Scott''' may refer to:

* "[[Great Scott]]!", an exclamation of surprise or amazement which was commonly found in [[superhero]] [[comic books]] and often said by [[Superman]]; it is also known as a line from the character [[Doctor Emmett Brown|Doc Brown]] of the ''[[Back to the Future trilogy|Back to the Future]]'' film trilogy. The expression dates back at least to the American Civil War, where the phrase appears in the 3 May 1864 diary entry of "[[Eye of the Storm: a Civil War Odyssey]]", by Private Robert Knox Sneden. “ ‘Great Scott,’ who would have thought that this would be the destiny of the Union Volunteer in 1861–2 while marching down Broadway to the tune of ‘John Brown’s Body’ ”.<ref>[http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-gre4.htm World Wide Words article on the origins of the phrase "Great Scott"]</ref>

:One possible origin is that it refers to a real person.  In an 1871 issue of Galaxy magazine, there is the sentence: "‘Great—Scott!’ he gasped in his stupefaction, using the name of the then commander-in-chief for an oath, as officers sometimes did in those days”.  And in a May 1861 edition of the [[New York Times]]: “These gathering hosts of loyal freemen, under the command of the great SCOTT”.  And there was a famouse Civil War general named General Winfield Scott.

:Another possible origin of the phrase is that people seeking to emulate the German [[Prince Albert]] altered and anglicized "Gruess Gott!", or "Good God!" into "Great Scott!". The etymologist and author [[John Ciardi]] once believed this, but later recanted in a radio broadcast in 1985.
*[[Great Scott (club)|Great Scott]], a live music venue in [[Allston]], [[Massachusetts]].<ref>[http://www.greatscottboston.com/ Great Scott Boston official web site]</ref>
*[[John Schweigert]], an ex-[[professional wrestling|professional wrestler]] known as The Great Scott.<ref>[http://www.wrestlingconfidential.com/realnames.shtml Wrestling Confidential's list of real names for Professional Wrestlers]</ref>

: The exclamation can also be found in C.S. Lewis' "Chronicles of Narnia", such as by Digory in the first book "The Magician's Nephew", or by Peter in the second book "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe".

== References ==
<references />

{{disambig}}
Great Scott is a band from Annapolis, Maryland.