{{webster}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/gɹi:t/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːt|-iːt]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[gretan#Old English|grētan]]'', from West Germanic.  Cognate with Dutch ''[[groeten]]'', German ''[[grüßen]]''.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To address with salutations or expressions of kind wishes; to salute; to hail; to welcome; to accost with friendship; to pay respects or compliments to, either personally or through the intervention of another, or by writing or token.
#:''My lord, the mayor of London comes to '''greet''' you.''  -Shak.
# To come upon, or meet, as with something that makes the heart glad.
#:''In vain the spring my senses '''greets'''.''  -Addison.
# To accost; to address.  -Pope.
# {{intransitive}}: To meet and give salutations.
#:''There '''greet''' in silence, as the dead are wont, And sleep in peace.''  -Shak.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[tervehtiä]] (2,3)

====Adjective====
'''greet'''
# {{italbrac|obsolete except Scotland}} Great.

===Etymology 2===
From a blend of two Old English verbs, ''[[gretan#Old English|grētan]]'' (cognate with Swedish ''[[gräta]]'', Danish ''[[græde]]'') and ''[[greotan|grēotan]]'' (of uncertain ultimate origin), both ‘weep, lament’.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{italbrac|now only Scotland and Northern UK}} To [[weep]]; [[cry]], [[lament]].
#:''Divint '''greet''' wor lass, he had a canny innins.''

====Noun====
'''greet'''
# {{obsolete}} Mourning, weeping, [[lamentation]].

----

==Scots==
===Etymology===
From a blend of two Old English verbs, ''[[gretan#Old English|grētan]]'' (cognate with Swedish ''[[gräta]]'', Danish ''[[græde]]'') and ''[[greotan|grēotan]]'' (of uncertain ultimate origin), both ‘weep, lament’.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/grit/}}

===Verb===
{{sco-verb|greets|greetin|'''[[grat]]''' or '''[[grettit]]'''|grutten}}

# to [[weep]], [[lament]]

===Noun===
{{sco-noun|-}}

# [[cry]], [[lamentation]]

[[category:Scottish English]]
[[category:Geordie]]
[[Category:Northern English dialect]]

[[fr:greet]]
[[io:greet]]
[[it:greet]]
[[la:greet]]
[[simple:greet]]
[[vi:greet]]
[[zh:greet]]