==English==

===Pronunciation===
:(US) SAMPA:/grin/


===Noun===
'''green'''

#The [[color|colour]] of growing [[foliage]], as well as other [[plant]] [[cell]]s containing [[chlorophyll]].
#a primary additive [[color|colour]] for transmitted light. 
#the colour obtained by subtracting red and blue from white light using cyan and yellow filters.
<table><tr><td>bright green colour: &nbsp;</td>
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
:''See also'' Wikipedia: [[w:green|green]]

===Translations===
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[groen]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[verd]] ''m''
* [[Dutch]]: [[groen]] ''n''
* [[French]]: [[vert]] ''m''
* [[Frisian]]: [[grien]]
* [[German]]: [[Grün]] ''n''
* [[Greek]]: [[πράσινος]] ''m''
* [[Italian]]: [[verde]]
* [[Polish]]: [[zieleń]] ''f''
* [[Spanish]]: [[verde]] ''m''

===Adjective===
'''green'''
#having a green colour
# Environmentally friendly.<br>
#:Ex. <i>Let's buy <b>green</b> copier paper for the office</i>
# Characterized by inexperience.
#:Ex. <i>John's kind of <b>green</b>, so take it easy on him this first week</i>
# Sickly-looking
#:Ex. <i>Sally looks pretty <b>green</b> -- is she going to hurl?</i>


===Translations===
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[groen]]
* [[Albanian]]: [[gjelbër]]
* [[Breton]] : [[glas]] (''natural''), [[gwer]] (''artificial'')
* [[Catalan]]: [[verd]] ''m'', [[verda]] ''f''
* [[Corsican]]: [[verdi]]
* [[Czech]]: [[zelený]]
* [[Danish]]: [[grøn]]
* [[Dutch]]: [[groen]], [[groentje]] ''n'' (3, translates as noun: ''Paul is een groentje''), [[onervaren]] (3)
* [[Esperanto]]: [[verda]]
* [[Estonian]]: [[roheline]]
* [[Finnish]]: [[vihreä]]
* [[French]]: [[vert]] ''m'', [[verte]] ''f'', [[verts]] ''m, pl'', [[vertes]] ''f, pl'', [[bleu]] ''m'' (3, translates as noun: ''Paul est un bleu'')
* [[Frisian]]: [[grien]]
* [[German]]: [[grün]]
* [[Greek]]: [[πράσινος]]
* [[Hebrew]]: [[ירוק]]
* [[Hungarian]]: [[zöld]]
* [[Icelandic]]: [[grænn]]
* [[Indonesian]]: [[hijau]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[verde]]
* [[Irish]]: [[glas]], [[uaine]]
* [[Italian]]: [[verde]]
* [[Japanese]]: [[緑]] (みどり, midori)
* [[Latin]]: [[virditas]]
* [[Manchu]]: ([[niowanggiyan]])
* [[Norwegian]]: [[grønn]]
* [[Polish]]: [[zielony]] ''m'', [[zielona]] ''f'', [[zielone]] ''n, pl non-m-personal'', [[zieloni]] ''pl m-personal''
* [[Portuguese]]: [[verde]]
* [[Romanian]]: [[verde]]
* [[Russian]]: [[зелёный]]
* [[Serbian]]: [[zelena]]
* [[Slovak]]: [[zelená]]
* [[Spanish]]: [[verde]]
* [[Swedish]]: [[grön]]
* [[Vietnamese]]: [[mầu xanh]]
* [[Welsh]]: [[gwyrdd]]

===Related words===
:''See'' [[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]