'''Grim Reapers''' are minor supernatural beings, they play a neccessary role in the cycle of [[life]] and [[death]]. Although some Reapers deal with [[animal]]s, all reapers are drawn from the ranks of humanity. Reapers are responsible for ensure the [[soul]] is moved on to its just rewards, and to ensure that the soul doesn't linger on. Although there are some exceptions, such as [[ghost]]s, [[phantasm]]s, and other ghostly supernatural undead.

To become a Reaper, a person must be touched by another Reaper's ''Touch of Death'' that has filled his quota of souls. The job of being a reaper is passed down from reaper to reaper, and one reaper never knows what his quota is, until they grab that very last soul before moving on.

Reapers tend to work, in groups, and are divided into divisions. Each reaper group conisist of 4 to 6 members, and one Higher ranked reaper who is their boss. The divisions of reapers is determined by how people die, such as suicides, murders (known as ''External Influences'') natural causes, plagues, and what not. Some Divisions are grouped together, and some are on their own.

Now each group of reapers, has an authority figure. This figure acts as boss, mentor, father figure and what not. He is the one who gets the list of those who have their appointment with death, and he is the one who ensures that the reapers do their job, by giving them their appointments. These ''Senior Reapers'' are considered middle managment, and very little ever sneaks past their watchful eye by disobediant Reapers.

When a person becomes a reaper, they no longer look as they did when they were alive. They spend a short amount of time as a [[spirit]] before they are given physical form again. They consider themselves undead, and can intereact with the world around them. A reaper is usually hard to spot unless one is looking for the person in particular, they then go move around unnoticed, unless they interact with the people around them. In otherwords, Reapers are somewhat invisible to the most people.

Since reapers are essentially people, they still have to hold down a job, make money, and live their new lives around their job of being a reaper. Some reapers feel no compunction to steal from those who have died, and often crash at the recently deceased place, and steal money from [[wallet]]s.

Reapers are also told to try and make peace with their former lives and move on. Some reapers will often visit their old homes and family and try to find closure. And sometimes, a reaper will interefere with the lives of those they once knew. Senior Reapers allow this, but if it continues on for too long they will step in, and make the offending reaper stop.

== Reaper Powers ==

The following powers are common to all reapers. There may be more.

''Regeneration'' - Reapers heal very fast. They can still feel the effects of pain, poisons, drugs, and what not as though they were alive. But the effects last only half as long.

''Immortal'' - Reapers are effectivly immortal, they do not age, or grow old. ''It is possible for a reaper to die by tagging along with a soul that is moving on.''

''Incorporeal'' - Reapers can become incorporeal at will. Although this can only last for short periods.

''Touch of death'' - The reaper's primary ability. When a person is about to die, the reaper touches the target before his appointment with death, upon the dying the soul is yanked out of the body. It is possible for a reaper to yank a soul after the body is dead, for the soul is trapped in the body until a reaper pulls it out.

''Soul wrench'' - It is possible for a reaper to yank a soul out of a person's body who isn’t about to die. The effects of such an event varies from person to person. Senior Reapers, warn against using this.

''See Graveling'' - Reapers can see ''gravelings'', small creatures that set up appointments with death, they are tyically invisible, but tend to show themselves shortly before a person dies, as they set up the circumstances of death.

''Moving on'' - A reapers job is to escort a person to the "lights" where the soul moves on. The soul stays with the reaper ''(or another reaper if they so choose)'' till they decide its time to move on. Those that don't, and feel that they have stuff still to do, can become ghosts or phantasms.

''The Knowing'' - This is a senior reaper ability. This ability gives the reaper the knowlege of the going ons of those under his charge. They are failing to do their job, they know it, and often will do things to fix the problem. Very little ever gets by a Senior reaper.

== See also ==

*[[Afterlife]]
*[[Death]]
*[[Psychopomp]]
*[[Soul]]