==English==

===Noun===
'''gringo''' {{m}}/{{f}}, '''[[gringa]]''' {{f}} (''plural:'' '''[[gringos]]''' {{m}}/{{f}}/{{n}}, '''[[gringas]]''' {{f}})
# ''(pejorative):'' A [[caucasian]] American.

----

==Portuguese==

===Etymology===
*In both Spanish and Portuguese, a ''gringo'' is a foreigner. It is believed to originate to from ''[[griego]]'', particularly from the phrase ''hablar en griego'', “to speak in Greek”, with a similar connotation to the English phrase “it’s all Greek to me”. In this regard, a ''gringo'' is simply someone who speaks an [[unintelligible]] language.

*Folk etymology suggests that it stems from the English words “Green” and “Grow” in the song “Green Grow the Lylacs” sung by American soldiers during the Mexican-American War.

*After the [[w:Mexican-American War|Mexican-American War]] and related tensions between the United States and Mexico, this term began to imply United States origin. However, in most of Latin America, it still simply means “foreigner”; it has been applied for example to Italians living in Argentina, or even Brazilians in Spanish speaking countries, or vice versa.

===Noun===
'''gringo'''
# [[#Noun|gringo]]
# A slang term given to very cool objects. (''Brazil'')


----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
{{es-noun-mf|feminine=gringa}}

# [[#Noun|gringo]]

====Derived terms====
*[[gringo de agua juca]] (''Honduras'')
*[[Gringolandia]], [[gringolandia]] {{f}}
*[[Gringotenango]]
*[[gringuera]] {{f}} (''Honduras'')

===See also===
*[[chele]] (''Honduras'')
*[[grencho]] (''Honduras'')
*[[güero]]

[[Category:English borrowed words]]
[[Category:Ethnic slurs]]

[[pt:gringo]]
[[vi:gringo]]
[[zh:gringo]]