{{wikipedia}}
==English==
=== Noun ===
'''group''' (''plural'' '''[[groups]]''')
# A number of things or persons being in some relation to each other.
#:''There is a group of houses behind the hill.''
#:''A group of people gathered in front of the Parliament to demonstrate against the Prime Minister's proposals.''
#:''Did you see the new jazz group?''
#:''He left town to join a Communist group''
#{{grouptheory}} A [[set]] ''G'' together with a [[binary operation]] * such that * is [[associative]] for elements of ''G''; there is an [[identity element]] in ''G''; every element of ''G'' has an [[inverse]] in ''G'' uder the operation, and for all elements ''a'' and ''b'' in ''G'', ''a'' * ''b'' is in ''G''.
#A (usually small) group of people who perform music together.
#{{astronomy}} A small number (up to about fifty) of [[galaxy|galaxies]] that near each other.
#{{chemistry}} A column in the [[periodic table]] of chemical elements.
#{{chemistry}} A functional entity consisting of certain atoms whose presence provides a certain property to a molecule, such as the methyl group.
#(''sociology'') A [[subset]] of a culture or of a society.
#{{military}} An [[air force]] formation.
#{{geology}} A collection of formations or rock strata.
#{{computing}} In the [[Unix]] [[operating system]], a way of classifying users and files to control access to files, computers and [[peripheral]]s.

====Synonyms====
*(''number of things or persons being in some relation to each other''): [[collection]], [[set]]
*(''people who perform music together''): [[band]], [[ensemble]]

====Derived terms====
*[[girl group]]
*[[group theory]]<!--mathematics-->
*[[Local Group]]<!--astronomy-->
*[[pop group]]

==== Translations ====

'''number of things or persons being in some relation to each other'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[groep]] [[:nl:groep|(nl)]] ''f'', [[verzameling]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[joukko]], [[ryhmä]]
*French: [[groupe]] [[:fr:groupe|(fr)]] ''m''
*[[Frisian]]: [[keppel]]
*German: [[Gruppe]] [[:de:Gruppe|(de)]] ''f''
*Greek: [[ομάδα]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[csoport]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gruppo]] ''m''
*[[Klingon]]: [[ghommey]]
*Romanian: [[grup]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[grupo]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[grupp]] ''c''
*Russian: группа ['gru:pa]
*Welsh: [[twr]]
{{bottom}}

'''in group theory'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[gruppe]]
*Dutch: [[groep]] ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[grupo#Esperanto|grupo]]
*French: [[groupe]] ''m''
*German: [[Gruppe]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gruppo]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[grupo#Portuguese|grupo]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[grupo#Spanish|grupo]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[grupp]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''people who perform music together'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''small number of galaxies'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''column in the periodic table'''
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[grup]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[grupo#Esperanto|grupo]]
*German: [[Gruppe]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gruppo]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[grupo#Portuguese|grupo]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[grupo#Spanish|grupo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''functional entity consisting of certain atoms whose presence provides a certain property to a molecule'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''subset of a culture or of a society'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''air force formation'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''collection of formations or rock strata'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in Unix'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb ===
'''to group'''  ([[groups]], [[grouped]], [[grouping]])
#To put together to form a group.

==== Translations ====
*Finnish: [[ryhmitellä]], [[luokitella]]
*French: [[grouper]]
*German: [[gruppieren]]
*Swedish: [[gruppera]]
*Romanian: [[a grupa]]

==== Synonyms ====
*(''put together to form a group''): [[amass]], [[categorise]]/[[categorize]], [[classify]], [[collect]], collect up, [[gather]], gather together, gather up

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[io:Group]]
[[it:group]]
[[pt:Group]]
[[fi:Group]]