{{see|Grue}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*gro͞o, /gruː/, /<tt>gru:</tt>/
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uː|-uː]]

===Homophones===
*[[grew]]

===Etymology 1===
Of Scandinavian origin: compare Old Swedish [[grua]].

====Intransitive verb====
{{en-verb|gru|ing}}

#(''archaic'') To be [[frightened]]; to [[shudder]] with [[fear]].

===Etymology 2===
Back-formation from '''[[gruesome]]'''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|-}}

# Any byproduct of a gruesome event: '''i.e.''' Gore, vicera, entrails, blood and Guts: 
#:"The butcher was covered in the accumulated '''grue''' of a hard day's work"
#:"There was '''grue''' everywhere after the accident"

====Quotations====
* '''1996,''' Linda Badley, ''Writing Horror and the Body'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=iaHQorgoqd4C&pg=PA39&lpg=PA39&sig=0unz5oiZA5IURViNe75MsU7vHG4]
*: ''Carrie'' is Cinderella in the body language of menstrual blood and raging hormones. King’s adolescent joy in grimaces and groans, the ''Mad'' magazine humor, and the staple of “'''grue'''” hardly need mentioning.
* '''2002,''' Carole Nelson Douglas, ''Chapel Noir'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=ZZu4sl0P1EAC&pg=PA336&lpg=PA336&sig=dPR0ntE54xw-h3m6fByM0fgJiuc]
*: “[...] She is quite agreeable to gruesome ghost stories, but appalled by the lust for life.”
*: “I admit that I am surprised by how well she handles sheer '''grue''', better than I.”
* '''2004,''' Talbot Mundy, ''Guns of the Gods'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=PUCcyz2L1iwC&pg=PA244&lpg=PA244&sig=REDDP_txW9FrUWEogxny6lZ4wUo]
*: “This is the '''grue''',” said Dick, holding his lantern high.
*: Its light fell on a circle of skeletons, all perfect, each with its head toward a brass bowl in the center.

===Etymology 3===
From the verb, above.

====Noun====
'''grue'''
# a [[shiver]], a [[shudder]]

====Quotations====
*'''1921''': There was a sharp grue of ice in the air &mdash; ''The Path of the King'', John Buchan, chapter 9
*'''1964''': ''A Grue of Ice'' (title of a thriller by Geoffrey Jenkins)

===Etymology 4===
{{blend|green|blue}}; coined by Nelson Goodman to illustrate concepts in the philosophy of science

====Adjective====
'''grue'''
#{{philosophy}} Of an object, green when first observed before a specified time or blue when first observed after that time.
#{{linguistics}} A term sometimes used as a translation of the word used for both "green" and "blue" in certain languages, such as Welsh, that do not distinguish between the two.

====Quotations====

'''philosophy'''
*'''1965''' The 'grue' property is defined as: ''x'' is grue if and only if ''x'' is green and is observed before the year 2000, or ''x'' is blue and is not observed before the year 2000. &mdash; ''Fact, Fiction and Forecast'', Nelson Goodman

===See also===
*[[bleen]]
*[[w:grue|Wikipedia article on grue]]

----
==French==
===Noun===
{{fr-noun-reg|f}}

#[[crane]] (''bird, machine'')

[[de:grue]]
[[et:grue]]
[[el:grue]]
[[fr:grue]]
[[gl:grue]]
[[io:grue]]
[[no:grue]]