{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
Chinese [[關係]], [[关系]] (guānxi<!---xi is neutral tone when used in this sense (connections, who you know) --->), literally [[relation]] [[connection]]; the importance of this concept in Chinese business has led to its adoption in Western businesses, particularly in the context of doing business with Chinese businesses and government agencies.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/'kuanɕi/}}

===Noun===
'''guanxi'''

# (In the context of Chinese society) [[connection]]s; [[relationship]]s; one's social or business [[network]]
#:''To open a new business in China you need '''''guanxi'''''.''

====Quotations====
*'''1996:''' James O'Reilly, Sean O'Reilly, Larry Habegger (editors), ''Travellers' Tales - Hong Kong'' [http://books.google.co.uk/books?vid=ISBN1885211031&id=DMy8ANLFJPoC&pg=PA384&lpg=PA384&dq=%22good+guanxi%22&sig=2k-Am3GuY0OcYkPm3AGblSfFiC0]
*:Who would dare to drive around in a [right-hand drive] car that was so obviously stolen and smuggled into the country? The police, of course! And Communisty Party officials. And those with '''''guanxi''''' with the police. 
*'''1998:''' Stuart Cohen, ''Invisible World''
*:By chance he'd happened to be in Hong Kong when Clayton had died, and his '''''guanxi''''' had smoothed out the paperwork that could have delayed things for weeks.
*'''2000:''' Yadong Luo, ''Strategy, Structure, and Performance of MNCs in China'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN156720385X&id=xi3amIAV1sEC&pg=PA56&lpg=PA56&dq=guanxi&sig=pej1VNMjpDiO9bWHrXnlEbUKV_I]
*:It should be noted that the existence of a basis for '''''guanxi''''' does not imply that such an alliance will develop.
*'''2005:''' [http://www.cbbc.org/market_intelligence/challenge/guanxi.html China-Britain Business Council]
*:Many foreigners claim to have '''''guanxi''''' with their Chinese counterparts; few actually do. 

===See also===
*[[network]]
*[[relationship]]

[[zh:guanxi]]