==English==

===Etymology===
Probably onomatopoetic.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/gə'fɔː/}} (''[[RP]]'')
* {{IPA|/gə'fɔ/}} (''AU/NZ'')
* {{IPA|/gə'foː/}} (''US'')
*{{audio|en-us-guffaw.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː|-ɔː/]], [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)|-ɔː(r)/]] (for [[non-rhotic]] accents)

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[boisterous]] [[laugh]]

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1800s=1847|
1900s=1906 1936}}
*'''1847''' — [[w:Emily Brontë|Emily Brontë]], ''[[s:Wuthering Heights|Wuthering Heights]] ch. ii''
*:On opening the little door, two hairy monsters flew at my throat, bearing me down, and extinguishing the light; while a mingled '''guffaw''' from Heathcliff and Hareton put the copestone on my rage and humiliation.
*'''1906''' — [[w:Arthur Conan Doyle|Arthur Conan Doyle]], ''[[s:Sir Nigel|Sir Nigel]] ch. xx''
*:He walked to the edge and they heard his hoarse '''guffaw''' of laughter as the arrows clanged and clattered against his impenetrable mail.
*'''1936''' — [[w:Robert E. Howard|Robert E. Howard]], ''[[s:The Hour of the Dragon|The Hour of the Dragon]] ch. 15''
*:He heaved up with a sulfurous curse, braced his legs and glared about him, with a burst of coarse '''guffaws''' in his ears and the reek of unwashed bodies in his nostrils.

====Synonyms====
* [[belly laugh]]

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[laugh]] [[boisterously]]

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1800s=1891|
1900s=1900}}
*'''1891''' — [[w:Oscar Wilde|Oscar Wilde]], ''[[s:The Picture of Dorian Gray|The Picture of Dorian Gray]] ch. 15''
*:He '''guffawed''' at his adversaries.
*'''1900''' — [[w:Stephen Crane|Stephen Crane]], ''[[s:The Knife|The Knife]]''
*:Peter, on the contrary, threw back his head and '''guffawed''' thunderously

====Translations====
;to laugh boisterously
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[хохотать]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Onomatopoeia]]
[[Category:Laughter]]

[[vi:guffaw]]
[[zh:guffaw]]