''See also [[gün]]''
==English==

===Etymology===
Middle English ''Lady Gunilda'' which was a huge crossbow that used powerful shot. It later became used for firearms like cannons and muskets. The Germanic woman’s name “Gundahild” and similar means “war-sword”.

===Pronunciation===
*gŭn, /{{IPAchar|ɡʌn}}/, /<tt>gVn</tt>

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}
# (heavy artillery) A [[bullet]] firing [[weapon]].
# (very portable, short, for hand use) A bullet firing weapon.
# (less portable, long, for hand use) A bullet firing weapon.
# (''surfing'') long [[surfboard]] designed for [[surfing]] big [[wave]]s (not the same as a [[longboard]], a gun has a pointed nose and is generally a little narrower).
#: 2000: ''by the winter of 1962, the Brewer Surfboards Hawaii gun was the most in-demand big-wave equipment on the North Shore.'' &mdash; Drew Kampion at surfline.com [http://www.surfline.com/surfaz/surfaz.cfm?id=766]
[[Category:Surfing]]
# (''slang'') A [[penis]].

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
*[[gunfire]]
*[[gunpowder]]
*[[gunsmith]]
*[[machine gun]]
{{mid}}
*[[spud gun]]
*[[Sten gun]]
*[[submachine gun]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[بندقية]]}}, {{ARchar|[[مسدس]]}}
*[[Breton]]: [[kanol]] {{m}} (1), [[arm-tan]] {{m}} (2,3), [[pistolenn]] {{f}} (3)
*Chinese: [[炮]] (pao), [[枪]]/[[槍]] (qiāng)
*Dutch: [[kanon]] {{n}} (1), [[vuurwapen]] {{n}} (2,3), [[pistool]] {{n}} (2), [[geweer]] {{n}} (3)
*French: [[fusil]], [[arme à feu]] {{f}}
*[[Ido]]: [[paf-armo]]
*[[Hindi]]: [[बंदूक]]
*Indonesian: [[senapan]], [[pistol]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[arma]] de foco
*Italian: [[arma da fuoco]] {{f}}, [[cannone]] {{m}} (1), [[pistola]] {{f}} (2), [[fucile]] {{m}} (3)
*Japanese: [[銃]] (じゅう, jū), [[拳銃]] (けんじゅう, kenjū), [[鉄砲]] (てっぽう, teppō); [[大砲]] (たいほう, taihou)
{{mid}}
*[[Marathi]]: [[बंदूक]]
*Polish: [[armata]] {{f}} (1) [[działo]] {{n}} (1), [[pistolet]] {{m}} (2), [[rewolwer]] {{m}} (2), [[spluwa]] {{f}} (2 ''slang''), [[strzelba]] {{f}} (3)
*[[Sicilian]]: [[scupetta]] {{f}} (1,2,3)
*Slovak: [[strelná zbraň]] {{m}}, [[kanón]] {{m}} (1), [[delo]] {{n}} (1), [[pištoľ]] {{f}} (2), [[puška]] {{f}} (3) 
*Slovene: [[top]] {{m}} (1), [[pištola]] {{f}} (2), [[puška]] {{f}} (3) 
*Spanish: [[cañon]] {{m}} (1), [[arma]] de fuego {{m}} (2,3), [[pistola]] {{f}} (2)
*Swahili: [[banduki]]
*Swedish: [[skjutvapen]], [[kanon]]
*Portuguese: [[arma]] de fogo {{m}}, revóvel, [[pistola]] {{f}}
*Yiddish: [[ביקס]] (biks)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|gun||n}}
# To ''gun down'', to shoot someone with a firearm.
#:''He '''gunned''' down the hitmen''.
# To speed something up.
#:''He '''gunned''' the engine up''.
# To offer vigorous opposition to a person or cause.
#:''He's '''gunning''' for you''.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[neerschieten]] (1), [[opdrijven]] (2)
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[zastrzelić]] (1), [[podkręcić]] (2)
{{bottom}}

===See also===
{{top}}
*[[automatic rifle]]
*[[bean-shooter]] (slang)
*[[cannon]]
*[[long rifle]]
{{mid}}
*[[musket]]
*[[pistol]]
*[[roscoe]] (slang)
{{bottom}}

----

==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: //
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /xyn/

===Verb===
'''gun'''
#first person present tense of [[gunnen]]; allowing or indulging something (pleasureable) to somebody; [[grant]], [[indulge]], not [[envy]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

==Japanese==
===Romaji===
{{romaji|ぐん}}
# {{japdef|軍|[[army]]}}

[[fr:gun]]
[[ko:gun]]
[[io:gun]]
[[it:gun]]
[[hu:gun]]
[[ru:gun]]
[[fi:gun]]
[[ta:gun]]
[[zh:gun]]