==English==

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}} 

#(''not [[comparable]]'') [[eviscerated]]
#*'''1829:''' Thomas Curtis (ed), ''The London encyclopaedia, or, Universal dictionary of science, art, literature, and practical mechanics, by the orig. ed. of the Encyclopaedia metropolitana''
#*:The exports, on the whole, in 1815, exceeded those of 1816; but the '''gutted''' herrings exported in the latter year exceeded those of the former by 12606½ barrels
#*'''2006:''' John Durand, ''Behind Enemy Lines: A Memoir''
#*:He was leaning forward, head down, taking one deliberate step after another, both arms behind, dragging his '''gutted''' buck by its barely forked antlers.
# With the most important parts [[destroyed]] (often by [[fire]]), [[removed]] or [[rendered]] [[useless]].
#*'''1786:''' Hannah More, ''Florio'' read in ''The Works of Hannah More, in Four Volumes: Including Several Pieces Never Before Published, Vol. I.'' (1803)
#*:(''referring to the practice of newspapers removing all intermediate vowels from the names of people about whom they were making potentially libelous statements, as eg Fl-r-o, compare 1714 cite of past participle, below'') For he to keep him from the vapours, /Subscribed at Hookham's, saw the papers; /Was deep in poet's-corner wit; /Knew what was in italics writ; /Explain'd fictitious names at will, /Each '''gutted''' syllable cou'd fill; /There oft, in paragraphs, his name /Gave symptom sweet of growing fame.
#*'''1819:''' John Thomas James, ''Journal of a Tour in Germany, Sweden, Russia, Poland in 1813-14''
#*:Viasma on the other hand, presented as dismal a scene as we had any where witnessed. Nearly all the large houses were '''gutted''' and burnt.
#*'''1841:''' "An intelligent gentleman of Berwick" quoted in Charles Ellms, ''The Tragedy of the Seas; Or, Sorrow on the Ocean, Lake, and River, from Shipwreck, Plague, Fire and Famine''
#*:We have this day paid a visit to the wreck, which is lying in much the same state that it was, only somewhat '''more gutted''' by the occasional dashing of the billows amongst its timber and planks.
#*'''1998:''' Dorothy U. Seyler, ''Read, Reason, Write''
#*:The markets will be '''more gutted''' than usual.
#*'''2006:''' Robert Dallek, ''Lone Star Rising: Lyndon Johnson and His Times, 1908-1960''
#*:The '''gutted''' city of Bremen, where nothing remained standing in its central area except a few walls in “crazy patterns”, and “the smell of death” from thousands of people buried in the wreckage “hung heavy in the air”.
#*'''2006:''' John W. Quist, ''An Occasionally Dry State Surrounded by Water: Temperance and Prohibition in Antebellum Michigan'' read in Paul Finkelman, Martin Hershock (eds), ''History of Michigan Law'' 
#*:Recognizing by late April that the new law was '''gutted''' beyond repair, the Michigan State Temperance Society urged prohibitionists to interrogate every every political candidate on this issue and to vote only for those who would "publicly pledge" to support "the passage and enforcement of [another] law".
#(''mainly archaic'') Having a [[gut]] or [[guts]].
#*'''1704:''' Jonathan Swift, ''A Full and True Account of the Battle Fought last Friday Between the Antient and the Modern Books in St James's Library'' read in John Hawkesworth ''The Works of Jonathan Swift, D.D., Dean of St. Patrick's, Dublin, accurately revised In Twelve Volumes, Adorned with Copper-Plates; with Some Account of the Author's Life, and Notes Historical and Explanatory'' (1755)
#*:Having spoke thus, she took the ugliest of her monsters, full '''gutted''' from her spleen, and flung it invisibly into his mouth, which, flying straight up into his head, squeezed out his eye-balls, gave him a distorted look, and half overturned his brain.
#*'''2006:''' Karra Porter, ''Mad Seasons: The Story of the First Women's Professional Basketball League, 1978-1981''
#*:He could tell she wanted to cry. "We've made a pact that we are going to try to get into men's basketball, and we're not going to do any of this crying stuff," he reminded her, and she '''gutted''' it out.
#*'''2006:''' Duane K. Maddy, ''
#*:"Uh, I'm having a problem " mumbled the soggy-'''gutted''' bear as he suddenly found himself wedged between two large Austrian women.
#(''slang'') deeply [[disappointed]]
#*'''1986:''' Keith William Nolan, ''Into Laos: Dewey Canyon II/Lam Son 719 ; Vietnam 1971''
#*:The whole platoon had felt '''gutted''', an attitude rarely reflected in press reporters.
#*'''2001:''' Terry Eagleton, ''Figures of Dissent: Critical Essays on Fish, Spivak, Zizek and Others''
#*:Throughout the book he runs the whole gamut of emotion from ‘chuffed' to ‘'''gutted'''', while being on the whole (surprisingly, for a fabulously gifted millionaire) '''more gutted''' than chuffed, and he cheerfully confesses to a short temper.
#*'''2004:''' "Bobbins", quoted in Justine Roberts, ''Mums on Pregnancy: Trade Secrets from the Real Experts''
#*:The thing I was '''most gutted''' about was that I had planned to finish knitting a patchwork cot blanket. It never did get finished.
#*'''2006:''' Karon Louise Mannerstedt, ''Twice''
#*:The guard entered the room and before I knew it Sarah had left, I felt '''gutted''' and a broken man.
#*'''2006:''' Paul Mitch, ''Life on the Rock and Roll: Dole''
#*:So there I was feeling totally '''gutted''' by the whole ghastly business.

====Translations====
*French: dégouté (1, 2), écoeuré (1)


===Verb form===
'''gutted'''

#Simple past of [[gut#Verb|to gut]]
#:'''eviscerated'''
#*'''1824:''' Charles Swan, ''Tale I. Of the Wonderful Dispensations of Providence, and of the Rise of Pope Gregory'' in ''Gesta Romanorum, Or, Entertaining Moral Stories: Invented by the monks as a fire-side recreation; and commonly applied in their discourses from the pulpit: whence the most celebrated of our own poets and others, from the earliest times, have extracted their plots. Translated from the Latin with Preliminary Observations and Copious Notes, in Two Volumes. Vol. II.''
#*:It happened that on the same day, a number of fishes were caught; and as he '''gutted''' one of them, he found the keys which seventeen years before he had cast into the sea.
#*'''2006:''' Emma Christopher, ''Slave Ship Sailors and Their Captive Cargoes, 1730-1807''
#*:A small incident noted by another unnamed diarist writes of an African coming to him as he '''gutted''' fish to make an impromptu trade of the fish for a coconut.
#:'''destroyed'''
#*'''1818:''' W. M. (William Marshall) Craig, ''Memoir of Her Majesty Sophia Charlotte, of Mecklenburg Strelitz, Queen of Great Britain, &c. &c. &c. shewing From faithful Representations and authentic Documents, that excellent lady to have been always as eminent for her virtues and accomplishments, as illustrious by her birth and high station...[full title stretches to 105 words in spite of the ''&c''s]''
#*:The mob collected in the neighbourhood of Moorfields, and attacked the School House, as well as some dwellings, belonging to Papists; which they completely '''gutted''', burning even the floors and timber of the apartments.
#*'''2006:''' Stephen Edward Cresswell, ''Rednecks, Redeemers, And Race: Mississippi After Reconstruction, 1877-1917''
#*:Many believed this provision '''gutted''' the new law, as Lowry appointed three very conservative men to the body.
#Past participle of [[gut#Verb|to gut]]
#:'''eviscerated'''
#*'''1767:''' Henry Brooke, ''The Fool of Quality: Or, The History of Henry, Earl of Moreland''
#*:During this confabulation, the whole house, drawers and all, was '''gutted''' as clean as a fowl for supper.
#*'''1801:''' John Coakley Lettsom, ''Hints Designed to Promote Beneficence, Temperance, & Medical Science, Vol 1 
#*:(''of slightly salted herrings'') Let them be '''gutted''', washed, and soaked, in cold water for an hour, then put them into the boiler in cold water.
#*'''2006:''' Neal Lineback, ''Charley Craft: The Life and Times of a North Carolinian Turned Oklahoma Homesteader, 1872-1934''
#*:The chicken would be '''gutted''', a process that usually took place in the barnyard.
#:'''destroyed'''
#*'''1714:''' Joseph Addison, ''The Spectator No. 567: On Innuendos, Paper I.'' read in Anna Letitia Barbauld, Joseph Addison, Richard Steele, ''Selections from the Spectator, Tatler, Guardian, and Freeholder: With a Preliminary Essay: in three volumes: Vol. II.'' (1804)
#*:This way of writing was first of all introduced by T—m Br—wn, of facetious memory, who, after having '''gutted''' a proper name of all its intermediate vowels, used to plant it in his works, and make as free with it as he pleased, without any danger of the statute.
#*'''1751:''' Thomas Gordon, Richard Barron, ''A Cordial for Low Spirits, Being a Collection of Valuable Tracts by the Late Thomas Gordon Esq; The Second Edition, Vol 1''
#*:For, not to mention that the Town would infallibly have been plundered, had not the Inhabitants '''gutted''' their Houses when they run away, it is certain that we have vanquished several great Guns, and brought them away Captives.
#*'''2006:''' Deborah Cahalen Schneider, ''Being Goral: Identity Politics and Globalization in Postsocialist Poland''
#*:This is evident in the community reaction to the brewery's new policies, which have '''gutted''' the social services available to brewery employees.
#*'''2006:''' Toni Schlesinger, ''Five Flights Up And Other New York Apartment Stories''
#*:The Thursday before last Halloween, the building next door was '''gutted'''. It took four and a half hours to put out.
#*'''2006:''' John Frazier, ''Silent Screams''
#*:The house had to be completely '''gutted''' and renovated before it would be reoccupied or sold and his landlord was furious.
#*'''2006:''' Robert F. (EDT) Williams, ''State Constitutions for the Twenty-First Century, Volume 1: The Politics of State Constitutional Reform''
#*:Sponsoring groups employed the constitutional initiative only after their proposals were twice blocked by gubernatorial vetoes and their successful statutory initiative was '''gutted''' by subsequent legislation.
#:'''upset'''
#*'''1987:''' Susan Carroll, ''Winterbourne''
#*:He was as '''gutted''' and empty as the ruined walls whose shadows loomed over him in the fleeting light of day.
#*'''2006:''' Marina Nicholas, Mohammed Taranissi, ''3 steps to fertility: The Infertile Couple's Guide to Maximising Their Ability to Conceive''
#*:In order to progress, we need to wait until the next period! I'm '''gutted'''! Been given some tablets to help accelerate this and should get it within 7-10 days.


[[fr:gutted]]