(&#39740;&#20332;; [[w:Jyutping|Jyutping]]: gwai2 lou2; [[w:Cantonese (linguistics)|Cantonese]] [[w:International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: {{IPA|kw&#592;&#618;<sub>35</sub> l&#601;&#650;<sub>35</sub>}}; [[w:Pinyin]]: gu&#301;l&#259;o; sometimes also spelt '''''Gwailo''''')

==English==
===Etymology===
Cantonese ''foreign devil''
* It literally means "[[w:ghost|ghost]] man" and arose to describe the pale complexion, the sometimes "red hair and green/blue eyes" (紅鬚綠眼) of Caucasians. When the term is translated into English, it is often translated as '''foreign devil'''. It is used so commonly by Cantonese speakers to refer to white people and westerners in general that its use is not always derogatory.

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''gweilo'''
#(''derogatory'') [[w:Caucasian race|Caucasian]] people (generally men)

====Usage====
''Gwailo'' is the most generic term, but variations include:
*To refer specifically to Caucasian women: ''gweipo'' (&#39740;&#23110;, [[w:jyutping|jyutping]]: gwai2 po4, literally: "ghost old-woman")
*To refer specifically to Caucasian boys: ''gweijai'' (&#39740;&#20180;, [[w:jyutping|jyutping]]: gwai2 zai2, literally: "ghost boy")
*To refer specifically to Caucasian girls: ''gweimui'' (&#39740;&#22969;, [[w:jyutping|jyutping]]: gwai2 mui1, literally: "ghost younger-sister")

Due to its widespread use, the term ''gwai'' has taken on the general meaning of "foreigner" or "westerner" rather than just Caucasian.  This use can be seen in the following terms:
* To refer to a [[w:whites|white]] foreigner: ''bakgwei'' (&#30333;&#39740;, [[w:jyutping|jyutping]]: baak6 gwai2, literally: "white ghost")
* To refer to a [[w:blacks|black]] foreigner: ''huckgwei'' (&#40657;&#39740;, [[w:jyutping|jyutping]]: haak1 gwai2, literally: "black ghost")
These terms may also be considered slightly pejorative though they can be used in neutral contexts.  

Some Caucasians living in [[w:Hong Kong|Hong Kong]] now occasionally use ''gweilo'' to jokingly refer to themselves.  This reflects a transformation in which an ethnic group begins referring to itself with a term which was originally considered an [[w:ethnic slur|ethnic slur]].

Although the term has lost much of its original pejorative connotation, prior to the 1980s, the term was commonly prefaced by ''sei'' (&#27515;, [[w:jyutping|jyutping]]: sei2, meaning: death, damnation) as in ''sei gweilo''  meaning "[[damnation|damned]] ghost man" (roughly equivalent to "[[bastard]]") and was a real term of abuse. Wishing death on someone is a powerful form of abuse in Cantonese.

In the Hong Kong cinema industry, the term "gweilo" is often used to describe Caucasian actors playing in Asian movies.

In [[w:Mandarin (linguistics)|Mandarin]], '''guizi''' (&#39740;&#23376;, [[w:pinyin]]: gu&#464;zi) is a similar term to ''gweilo''.  ''Guizi'', however, can be used to refer to either Caucasians (''yang guizi'', "ocean ghost") or the [[w:Japanese people|Japanese]] (''rìběn guǐzi'', "Japan ghost").  ''[[Laowai]]'' ("old out" or "old outsider"), usually used for Caucasians, is a less pejorative term in Mandarin than ''guizi''.

==External link==
*[http://humorist.net/books/book1s1.htm Cartoon] by [[Larry Feign]]

[[Category:Ethnic slurs]]