{{see|Gypsy}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From [[w:Old English language|Old English]][[category:Old English derivations]] [[Gypcyan]], [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] [[gyptien]] (meaning [[Egyptian]], [[gypsy]]), from [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] [[Aegyptius]]. See [[Egyptian]]. 

===Noun===
{{en-noun|gyps|ies}}

# {{perjorative}} an [[itinerant]] person or any person or group with qualities traditionally ascribed to Roma, including suspected of making a living from dishonest practices or theft etc.
# [[Gypsy#Noun|Gypsy]], a member of the [[Roma]]. This term is considered pejorative by many and by the Roma themselves.
# {{cattag|Webster|perjorative|archaic}} One of a vagabond race, whose tribes, traditionally thought to have originally from India, entered Europe in 14th or 15th century, and are now scattered over Turkey, Russia, Hungary, Spain, England, etc. living by theft, fortune telling, horsejockeying, tinkering, etc. Cf. [[Bohemian]], [[Romany]]. 
#:''Like a right '''gypsy'', hath, at fast and loose, Beguiled me to the very heart of loss.'' [[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]][[Category:Shakespeare Quotes]]

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[ciganin#Bosnian|ciganin]] {{m}}, [[ciganka#Bosnian|ciganka]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[吉普賽人]], [[吉普赛人]]
*Croatian: [[ciganin#Croatian|ciganin]] {{m}}, [[ciganka#Croatian|ciganka]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[zigeuner]] {{m}}, [[zigeunerin]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[mustalainen]]
*French: [[bohémien]] {{m}}, [[bohémienne]] {{f}}, [[tsigane]] {{m}}, {{f}}
*German: [[Zigeuner]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[τσιγγάνος]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[cigány]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ジプシー]] (jipushii)
*Korean: [[집시]] (jipshi)
*Polish: [[cygan]] {{m}}, [[cyganka]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[cigano]] {{m}}, [[cigana]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[цыганин]] {{m}} (tsiganin)
*Serbian:
:Cyrillic: [[циганин#Serbian|циганин]] {{m}}, [[циганка#Serbian|циганка]] {{f}}
:Roman: [[ciganin#Serbian|ciganin]] {{m}}, [[ciganka#Serbian|ciganka]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[gitano]] {{m}} [[gitana]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-notcomp}}

# Of or having the qualities of an [[itinerant]] person or group with qualities traditionally ascribed to Roma, including suspected of making a living from dishonest practices or theft etc. Highly perjorative.
#:''If anyone questions them, they'll [[fold up]] faster than a '''gypsy''' roofing [[company]].''
# [[Gypsy#Adjective|Gypsy]], of or belonging to the [[Roma]]. This term is considered pejorative by many.
# Of or belonging to the ''Gypsy'' ''race'' (Webster).

===Alternative spellings===
*[[gipsy]]
*[[gypsey]]

====Synonyms====
*[[Roma]]
*[[Sinti]]
*[[traveller]]
*[[vagrant]]

====Derived terms====
*[[gypsy cab]]
*[[gypsy moth]]
*[[gyp]]

===See also===
*[[w:Roma_%28people%29|Wikipedia article on the Roma]]

{{webster}}

[[fr:gypsy]]
[[io:gypsy]]
[[it:gypsy]]
[[fi:gypsy]]
[[zh:gypsy]]