==Chinese==
===[[Mandarin]]===
[[Pinyin]]: shānbēng dì liè

===Etymology===
Literally: the mountains collapse and the earth splits open

===Idiom===
'''[[山崩]][[地]][[裂]]'''

# describes how a place looks after a great natural catastrophe; massively destructive
#: ''[[这次]][[地震]][[发生]][[在]][[当地时间]][[凌晨]]，[[人们]][[还]][[在]][[睡梦]][[中]][[被]]'''山崩地裂'''[[般]][[的]][[地震]][[惊醒]]，[[无数]][[房屋]][[在]][[一瞬]][[间]][[轰然]][[倒坍]]，[[许多]][[人]][[卒不及防]][[就]][[死]][[于]][[梦]][[中]]。.'' ([[Simplified Chinese]])
# ''[[這次]][[地震]][[發生]][[在]][[當地時間]][[凌晨]]，[[人們]][[還]][[在]][[睡夢]][[中]][[被]]'''山崩地裂'''[[般]][[的]][[地震]][[驚醒]]，[[無數]][[房屋]][[在]][[一瞬]][[間]][[轟然]][[倒坍]]，[[許多]][[人]][[卒不及防]][[就]][[死]][[於]][[夢]][[中]]。'' ([[Traditional Chinese]])
#: ''This time, the earthquake occurred before dawn local time.  People were still sound asleep when they were jolted awake by a '''massively destructive''' earthquake.  In an instant, countless houses had collapsed, and many people had died in their sleep with no time to react.''
# describes something that has prestige and is imposing; awesome
#: ''“[[太鼓]]”[[是]][[日本]][[传统]][[的]][[鼓]][[艺]][[表演]][[形式]]，[[由于]][[其]][[所]][[擂]][[出]][[的]]'''山崩地裂'''[[的]][[巨]][[响]]，[[加]][[上]][[低频]][[如]][[飓风]][[般]][[袭]][[来]]，[[其]][[音压]][[之]][[高]]，[[力道]][[之]][[强]]，[[爆]][[发音]][[之]][[猛]]，[[非]][[言语]][[所]][[能]][[形容]]。''
#: ''“[[太鼓]]”[[是]][[日本]][[傳統]][[的]][[鼓]][[藝]][[表演]][[形式]]，[[由於]][[其]][[所]][[擂]][[出]][[的]]'''山崩地裂'''[[的]][[巨]][[響]]，[[加]][[上]][[低頻]][[如]][[颶風]][[般]][[襲]][[來]]，[[其]][[音壓]][[之]][[高]]，[[力道]][[之]][[強]]，[[爆]][[發音]][[之]][[猛]]，[[非]][[言語]][[所]][[能]][[形容]]。''
#: ''The "[[wikipedia:Taiko|Taiko]]" is a Japanese traditional style of drumming performance.  As a result of the '''awesome''' noise that comes from the drumming, the low frequencies that strike like a hurricane, and the full and explosive ferocity of the sound, there are no words that can describe it.''

===Proper noun===
'''[[山崩]][[地]][[裂]]'''

# Chinese title for the movies:
*[[wikipedia:Dante's Peak|Dante's Peak]]
*Landslide

===References===
*[http://www.dreye.com Dr. Eye]
*[http://140.111.34.46/cgi-bin/dict/GetContent.cgi?Database=dict&DocNum=122980&GraphicWord=yes&QueryString=山崩地裂 國語辭典 (Guoyu Cidian)]
*[http://72.14.207.104/search?q=cache:Ja9TRxyu6XQJ:lib.verycd.com/2005/07/28/0000058503.html+english+title+%22%E5%B1%B1%E5%B4%A9%E5%9C%B0%E8%A3%82%22&hl=zh-TW&gl=tw&ct=clnk&cd=1 From an on-line description of a [[wikipedia:Taiko|Taiko]] music CD]
*[http://72.14.207.104/search?q=cache:ZoBgg-JOpgMJ:www.csi.ac.cn/hzc/zhuanji/20060107shouye.htm++%22%E5%B1%B1%E5%B4%A9%E5%9C%B0%E8%A3%82%22+site:.cn&hl=zh-TW&gl=tw&ct=clnk&cd=64 From the China Earthquake Information Net (中国地震信息网)]

===[[Attestation]]===
*''Less than 2,000 hits may be an indicator that this term is not commonly used.''
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%B1%B1%E5%B4%A9%E5%9C%B0%E8%A3%82&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .cn]
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%B1%B1%E5%B4%A9%E5%9C%B0%E8%A3%82&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]

[[Category:Chinese idioms (Traditional Chinese)]]
[[Category:Chinese idioms (Simplified Chinese)|shan1beng1di4lie4]]
[[Category:Chinese proper nouns (Traditional Chinese)]]
[[Category:Chinese proper nouns (Simplified Chinese)|shan1beng1di4lie4]]
[[Category:山]]
[[Category:崩]]
[[Category:地]]
[[Category:裂]]