{{see|vän|Van}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|văn}}
*{{IPA|/væn/}}
*{{SAMPA|/v{n/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A (covered) [[vehicle]] used for carrying [[goods]]
#: ''The '''van''' sped down the road.''
# {{form of|shortened form|vanguard}}
# {{form of|shortened form|caravan}}

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Dutch: [[bestelwagen]] {{m}}, [[camionet]] {{f}} {{italbrac|Belgium}}
*French: [[camionette]] {{f}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[camionetta]], [[furgon]]
*Portuguese: van {{f}}, [[furgão]] {{m}}

====Related terms====
*[[panel van]]

===See also===
*[[truck]]
*[[lorry]]
*[[transit]] (UK)

----

==Croatian==

===Adverb===
'''van'''

# [[out]]

[[Category:Croatian adverbs]]

----

==Dutch==

[[Category:Dutch prepositions]]
[[Category:Dutch adverbs]]
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/van/}}

===Preposition===
'''van'''

# {{italbrac|possession}} [[of]]
#: ''De hoed '''van''' het meisje.'' &mdash; The hat of the girl.
#: ''Het gewicht '''van''' een olifant.'' &mdash; The weight of an elephant.
# {{italbrac|place|direction}} [[from]], [[off]]
#: ''Hij ging '''van''' deur tot deur.'' &mdash; He went from door to door.
#: ''Het vlees '''van''' de beenderen snijden. &mdash; To cut the meat from the bones.
#: '''''Van''' vader op zoon.'' &mdash; From father to son.
#: ''Hij komt '''van''' Griekenland.'' &mdash; He’s from Greece.
# {{italbrac|time}} [[from]]
#: '''''Van''' dag tot dag.'' &mdash; Day by day.
#: '''''Van''' toen af aan.'' &mdash; From then onwards.
#: '''''Van''' ’s avonds laat tot ’s morgens vroeg.'' &mdash; From the early morning till late at night.
#: ''De trein '''van''' tien uur.'' &mdash; The 10.00 train.
# {{italbrac|cause}} [[of]], [[with]]
#: ''Sidderen '''van''' angst.'' &mdash; Trembling with fear.
#: ''Tranen '''van''' geluk.'' &mdash; Tears of joy.
# {{italbrac|origin}} [[by]], [[of]]
#: ''Een schilderij '''van''' Rubens. &mdash; A painting by Rubens.
#: ''Een plaat '''van''' de Beatles. &mdash; A Beatles record.
# {{italbrac|resource}} [[with]], [[of]]
#: '''''Van''' dit geld kan ik een basgitaar kopen.'' &mdash; With this money I’m able to buy a bass.
# {{italbrac|part}} [[of]], [[among]]
#: ''De jongste '''van''' zijn dochters.'' &mdash; The youngest of his daughters.
# {{italbrac|quality}} [[of]]
#: ''Zij was '''van''' adel.'' &mdash; She was of nobel stock.
#: ''Een stad '''van''' één miljoen inwoners.'' &mdash; A city of one million inhabitants.
#: ''Hij is een man '''van''' eer.'' &mdash; He’s a man of honour.
#: ''Dat is hier niet '''van''' toepassing.'' &mdash; That’s not applicable here.

====Derived terms====
*[[van top tot teen]]

===Adverb===
'''van'''

# [[of]], [[from]]
#: ''Ik neem er tien '''van'''.'' &mdash; I’ll take ten of them.
# [[from]]
#: ''Ik vertrek '''van''' daar.'' &mdash; I’ll start from there.
# [[by]], [[from]]
#: ''Ik word er gek '''van'''.'' &mdash; It drives me crazy.
#: ''Men wordt daar sloom '''van'''.'' &mdash; It turns one numb.
# [[of]], [[about]]
#: ''Wat zegt u daar '''van'''?'' &mdash; What do you say about that?
#: ''Ik weet daar niks '''van'''.'' &mdash; I don’t know anything about that.

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[vannus]]''

===Noun===
'''van'''

#a winnowing [[basket]]

[[Category:French nouns]]

----

==Hungarian==

===Etymology===
See Hungarian [[volt]]

===Verb===
'''van'''

# [[is]]
# [[has]]

[[Category:Hungarian verbs]]

----

==[[Interlingua]]==

===Adjective===
'''van'''

# [[vain]], [[futile]]
# [[vain]], [[worthless]]
# [[vain]], [[conceited]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
Ultimately from Latin ''[[vadere]]''

===Verb form===
'''van'''

# {{form of|present third-person plural|ir}}

----

==Swedish==

===Adjective===
'''van'''

# be [[used]] to, have the [[habit]] to
#: ''Han är '''van''' vid att stiga upp klockan sju varje morgon.''
#:: “He is used to getting up at seven every morning.”
# [[experienced]], [[adept]]
#: ''Hon är en '''van''' bilförare.''
#:: “She is an experienced driver.”

====Idioms====
*[[med van hand]]

====Related terms====
*[[vana]]

[[Category:Swedish adjectives]]

[[es:van]]
[[fr:van]]
[[gl:van]]
[[io:van]]
[[id:van]]
[[ku:van]]
[[la:van]]
[[hu:van]]
[[nl:van]]
[[ja:van]]
[[pl:van]]
[[vi:van]]
[[zh:van]]