==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /vəˈnɪlə/

===Noun===
'''vanilla''' (''[[uncountable]] and [[countable]]'')

#(''[[countable]]'') Any tropical, climbing [[orchid]] of the genus '''''Vanilla''''' (especially '''''[[w:Vanilla planifolia|V. planifolia]]'''''), bearing podlike fruit yielding an extract used in flavoring food or in perfumes.
#('''''Vanilla''''') (''[[uncountable]]'') The genus of this plant.
#(''[[countable]]'') The [[fruit]] or [[bean]] of this orchid.
#(''[[uncountable]]'') The [[extract]] of this fruit.
#(''[[uncountable]]'') The [[distinctive]] [[fragrant]] [[flavour]]/[[flavor]] characteristic of vanilla extract.
#:''You can tell that the secret [[ingredient]] missing from New Coke<sup><small>TM</small></sup> was vanilla, because certain South American economies collapsed when it was introduced, and miraculously revived when the old [[formula]] was used again.''
#(''[[uncountable]]'') Any artificially produced homologue of vanilla extract, generally that produced from coal tar.

====Synonyms====
*(bean): [[vanilla bean]]
*(extract): [[vanilla extract]]
*(artificial extract): [[imitation vanilla]]

====Translations====

'''orchid'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[vanilja]]
*{{It}}: [[vaniglia]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''genus'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''fruit'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[vaniljatanko]]
*German: [[Vanille]] ''n''
*{{It}}: [[vaniglia]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovene: [[vanilja]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[vaniljstång]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''natural extract'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[vaniljauute]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''flavour/flavor'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[vanille]]
*{{fi}}: [[vanilja]]
*French: [[vanille]]
*Italian: [[vaniglia]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[vanilj]]
*German: [[vanille]] ''a''
|}
|}

'''artificial extract'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{fi}}: [[vanilliini]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Adjective===
'''vanilla''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]] forms'')

#Of or relating to vanilla.
#:''vanilla bean''
#Flavoured/flavored with vanilla or vanilla extract (whether natural or artificial).
#:''vanilla ice cream'''
#(''colloquial'') By association with vanilla as the "plain" flavour of ice cream: the standard, plain, default, unmodified, basic.
#:''vanilla suit''.

'''of vanilla'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{fi}}: [[vanilja]]-
*French: de vanille, di vaniglia
*{{It}}: di [[vaniglia]]
*Japanese: バニラ
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[vanilj-]]
|}
|}

'''flavoured/flavored with vanilla'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[vanille-]]
*{{fi}}: [[vanilja]]-
*French: à la vanille
*{{It}}: alla [[vaniglia]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[vanilj-]]
|}
|}

'''standard'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{fi}}: [[tavallinen]], [[pelkkä]], [[vanilja]]- (''colloquial'')
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[vanillin]]

[[pl:Vanilla]]