{{See|Varna}}
==English==

===Noun===
'''varna''' (''plural'' '''varnas''')

#One of the four [[caste]]s in [[Hinduism]].

====Translations====

'''caste'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: varna ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

====Etymology====
*From [[Sanskrit]] (&#2357;&#2352;&#2381;&#2339; ''var&#x1e47;a'' "colour, tint, dye, pigment", or faith (faithless), preference, religious affiliation, conviction, or "to choose", or lustre).
*In the [[Zend Avesta]] and the [[Gathas]], the word Varana or Varena (from the root Var ("put faith in, to believe in") is used in the sense of "faith, religious doctrine, choice of creed or belief.") The language of the [[Gathas]] (the oldest part of the Avesta) is very similar to the language of the Rig Veda.
*It may also come from the root Var- "choose", as in "svayamvara", “[a girl’s] own choice [of a husband]”, or from the root '''vri''' (which means "one's occupation").
*In the Rig Veda, the word varNa occurs 22 times and means ''lustre'' in 17 out of 22 times it refers to the "lustre" (i.e. "one's own typical light") of gods like [[Soma]], [[Agni]] or [[Ushas]]. In RV 3.34.5 and RV 9.71.2 it refers to the lustrous colour of the sky at dawn.
*According to Hindu tradition, Varna refers to sounds of speech or language. Western Indologists have wrongly interpreted varna as "a letter of the alphabet". According to Welzer (1994 (229-230)), Varna can be grammatically derived from the term "class" (vide Panini), but it has aquired the incorrect meaning of "colour".

===See also===
*[[w:Varna|Wikipedia article on Varna]]
*[[w:varna_(caste)|Wikipedia article on varnas in Hinduism]]

===References===
*[http://sulekha.com/blogs/blogdisplay.aspx?cid=3252#up2 Credo, Quia Occidentale]
*Welzer, Albrecht. 1994. Credo, Quia Occidentale: A Note on Sanskrit varna and its Misinterpretation in Literature on Mamamsa and Vyakarana. In: Studies in Mamamsa: Dr Mandan Mishra Felicitation Volume edited by R.C. Dwivedi. Delhi: Motilal Banarasidass. 

----
==Swedish==
===Verb===
'''varna''' 

#to [[warn]]