{{see|Veto}}

==English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''veto'', I forbid.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈviːtoʊ/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

#A political right to [[disapprove]] of and thereby stop the process of a decision, a law, etc.

====Translations====
'''a political right to disapprove of and thereby stop the process of a decision, a law, etc.'''
{{top}}
*Danish: veto
*Dutch: veto
*Finnish: veto, [[veto-oikeus]]
*German: Veto {{n}}, [[Einspruch]] {{m}}
*French: veto {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[拒否権]] (kyohi-ken)
*Polish: weto
*Spanish: veto {{m}}
*Swedish: veto
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To use a [[veto]] against.

====Translations====
'''to use a veto against'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[käyttää]] [[veto-oikeus|veto-oikeuttaan]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[拒否権を発動する]] (kyohiken-wo-hatsudō-suru)
{{bottom}}

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
'''veto'''
#veto

----
==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''veto'''
# veto

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----
==Finnish==

===Etymology (1)===
From verb [[vetää]] eg. ''to pull'' + [[-o#Finnish|-o]].

===Pronunciation (1)===
/ˈveto/

===Noun (1)===
'''veto'''

# The act of [[pull]]ing, [[pull]]
# [[Draught]]/[[draft]] of air
# [[Stroke]] of hand, oar etc.
# [[Bet]] (eg. in gambling).

===Pronunciation (2)===
/ˈveːto/

===Noun (2)===
'''veto'''

# veto.

====Synonyms====
*[[veto-oikeus]]

[[Category:Finnish nouns]]

----
==French==

===Noun===
'''veto''' {{m}} (''plural:'' '''vetos''')

#veto
#[[vet]] (''veterinarian'')
#:''Nous avons dû emmener le chien chez le veto'' - We had to take the dog to the vet's

[[Category:French nouns]]

----
==Latin==

===Alternative spellings===
'''veto''', '''vetare''', '''vetavi''', '''vetatum'''

===Verb===
'''veto''', '''[[vetare]]''', '''[[vetui]]''', '''[[vetitum]]'''
# To [[forbid]], veto.

[[Category:Latin verbs]]

----
==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{no-noun-n1}}
#[[#English|veto]]

[[Category:Norwegian nouns]]

----
==Spanish==

===Noun===
'''veto''' {{m}} (''plural:'' '''vetos''')
# Veto.

[[Category:Spanish nouns]]

----
==Swedish==

===Noun===
'''veto'''
# Veto.

[[Category:Swedish nouns]]

[[et:veto]]
[[fr:veto]]
[[io:veto]]
[[id:veto]]
[[pl:veto]]
[[vi:veto]]
[[zh:veto]]