Upon initial review of the Wikipedia definition of “virtual community,” we collectively defined it based upon Castell's ''The Internet Galaxy'' and Rheingold's ''Smart Mobs''  as the following: A community that is not defined by physical boundaries but by user interests. These interests form symbolic boundaries that unite groups with a common theme. 

By the same token, Castells states that the internet culture is the culture of the creators of the internet. It is characterized by a four-layer structure: the techno-meritocratic culture, the hacker culture, the virtual communitarian culture, and the entrepreneurial culture. (Manuel Castells, The Internet Galaxy 2001: pp 36-36)  All of these groups, not commonly known to each other, communicate and interact via the internet.  If they connect with each other long enough then they become socially integrated. 

According to Rheingold, a virtual community provides a benefit to society without depending upon cooperative efforts and mainly dependent upon individual progress. (Howard Reihngold, Smart Mobs 2002: pp 53). USENET is an example of a virtual community that establishes a site of information gathering by providing users with knowledge and specific subject know-how. (Rheingold 2002: pp 116). By extension, a virtual community is a set space where an update of favorite websites creates a trade of recommended sites (Rheingold: 115). On The Well, another virtual community, expert knowledge is handed-down to users by answering questions to user’s questions (Rheingold 2002: 115).