==Korean==
===Noun===
'''나무''' (namu)

# [[tree]]

====Derived terms====
*[[느릅나무]]: [[elm]]
*[[느티나무]] (neutinamu): [[zelkova]]

[[Category:Korean nouns|ㄴㅏㅁㅜ]]

[[ko:나무]]
[[io:나무]]
[[fi:나무]]

나무 〔수목〕 a tree; a shrub(관목); 〔초목〕 a plant; 〔목재〕 wood; timber; 《美》 lumber; 〔땔나무〕 firewood; firing; fuel.
· ∼가 우거진 산 a wooded[woody] hill.
· ∼가 없는 산 a hill bare of trees／a bald hill.
· ∼ 책상 a wooden desk.
· ∼하러 가다 go to gather[cut] firewood.
· 산에서 ∼를 베어 내다 bring down timber[lumber] from a mountain.
· ∼를 베다 fell[《美》 fall／cut] a tree.
· ∼에 물을 주다 water a plant.
· ∼를 치다 trim a tree.
· ∼에 올라가다 climb (up) a tree.
· ∼를 때다 burn wood.
· ∼가 우거지다 be thickly wooded.
· ∼를 보고 숲을 못 보다 cannot[be unable to] see the wood for the trees.
· ∼에서 사과를 한 개 따먹었다 I picked an apple from a tree and ate it.
· 열 번 찍어 아니 넘어가는 ∼ 없다 《속담》 The repeated stroke will fell the oak.
나무 거울 a good-for-nothing (fellow).
나무 공이 a wooden pestle.
나무 괭이 a wooden hoe.
나무깽이 a piece of wood; a splinter.
나무꾼 a firewood gatherer; a woodman; a woodcutter; 《美》 a lumberjack.
나무눈[순] tree buds[sprouts／shoots].
나무때기 a chip[piece] of wood; a stick; a board; a lath.
나무 막대기 a stick; a rod; a pole; a club.
나무못 a wooden peg[nail]; a treenail.
나무배 a wooden ship[vessel].
나무 뿌리 the root of a tree.
나무 상자 a wooden box.
나무장수 a firewood seller; a fuel dealer.
나무좀 [動] a grain borer; a wood borer[engraver].
나무 줄기 the trunk of a tree.
나무진디 [昆] a wood louse.
나무토막 a piece[chip／splinter] of wood; a block(큰 것).
나무판자 a board.
나무판장 a wooden wall; a board fence.
나뭇가지 the branches of a tree; a bough(큰 가지); a spring(잔 것).
나뭇간 a woodshed.
나뭇개비 a piece of wood; a splinter.
나뭇결 the grain (of wood).
· ∼결이 곱다[거칠다] be fine-grained[coarse-grained].
나뭇고갱이 the pith[heart] of wood.
나뭇길 a woodman's path.
나뭇단 a fag(g)ot; a bundle of firewood.
나뭇더미 a woodpile.
나뭇동 a large bundle of wood.
나뭇등걸 the stump of a tree.
나뭇바리 a load of wood.
나뭇조각 a splinter; a piece[chip／block] of wood; a chunk (of wood)(큰 것).
나뭇진 sap of a tree; resin.