{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
French, from Latin ''[[fabula]]'', from ''[[fari]]'' to speak, say. See [[Ban]], and compare [[fabulous]], [[fame]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[feigned]] [[story]] or [[tale]], intended to [[instruct]] or [[amuse]]; a [[fictitious]] [[narration]] intended to [[enforce]] some useful [[truth]] or [[precept]]; an [[apologue]]. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Jotham's ''fable'' of the trees is the oldest extant. - [[w:Joseph Addison|Joseph Addison]].
# The [[plot]], story, or connected series of events, forming the subject of an [[epic]] or [[dramatic]] [[poem]]. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The moral is the first business of the poet; this being formed, he contrives such a design or ''fable'' as may be most suitable to the moral. - [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]].
# Any story told to excite wonder; common talk; the [[theme]] of talk.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Old wives' ''fables''. - ''1 Timothy 4:7''
#:*We grew The ''fable'' of the city where we dwelt. - [[w:Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]].
# [[Fiction]]; [[untruth]]; falsehood.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*It would look like a ''fable'' to report that this gentleman gives away a great fortune by secret methods. - Joseph Addison.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Croatian: [[bajka]]
*Czech: [[pohádka]]
*Danish: [[fabel]]
*Esperanto: [[fabelo]]
*French: [[conte]] {{m}}
*German: [[Märchen]] {{n}}
*Hungarian: [[mese]]
*Italian: [[fiaba]] {{m}}
*Kyerepon: [[ anansesem]]
*Polish: [[bajka]]
*Romanian: [[poveste]]
*Slovak: [[rozprávka]]
*Spanish: [[cuento]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[saga]], [[berättelse]]
*Twi: [[ anansesem]]

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|fabl|e}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[compose]] [[fables]]; hence, to write or speak [[fiction]] ; to write or [[utter]] what is not true.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He ''Fables'' not. - Shakespeare, ''1 Henry VI'', IV-ii.
#:*Vain now the tales which ''fabling'' poets tell. - [[Matthew Prior]]
#:*He ''fables'', yet speaks truth. - [[Matthew Arnold]].
# {{transitive}} To [[feign]]; to [[invent]]; to [[devise]], and speak of, as true or real; to tell of [[falsely]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The hell thou ''fablest''. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]].

====Translations====
'''compose fables'''
* Danish: [[fable]]
* German: [[fabulieren]]

'''tell of falsely'''
* Danish: [[fabulere]]

[[de:fable]]
[[et:fable]]
[[el:fable]]
[[fr:fable]]
[[io:fable]]
[[ja:fable]]
[[ro:fable]]
[[vi:fable]]
[[zh:fable]]