==English==
===Pronunciation===
*fä(r)'si, /ˈfɑː(r)si/, /"fA:rsi/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɑː(r)si|Rhymes: -ɑː(r)si]]
*fä(r)'sē, /ˈfɑː(r)siː/, /"fA:rsi:/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɑː(r)siː|Rhymes: -ɑː(r)siː]]

===Etymology===
Directly from the local term for the province of Persis ("[[Pars]]") in southern Iran, adopted by Persians to refer to their language after Islamic invasions in the 7th century. Since arabs do not have the letter "P" in their alphabets they changed it to "Fars" and "Farsi". I just remembered a joke in this context so here I go.

An arab ( Arabs can not pronounce P and replace it with B ; if you have not noticed it then listen carefully when an Arab speaks next time ) went downtown and wasn't sure if he could park his car on the side of the street. He went to police officer who happened to be there and ask, "Can I bark here sir?". The Police officer looked at the Arab and asked him to repeat his question as he wasn't sure if he heard right. The Arab said, "I said can I bark here sir?". The police officer being amazed said, "Yes you can but not very loud as you might disturb the people".

===Proper noun===
#the national language of Iran.

===Usage note===
*More formally the term [[Western Farsi]] is preferred by linguists for this language.  [[Easter Farsi]] which is often called [[Dari]] is used in Afghanistan and is very similar.  
Together with [[Tajiki]] and seven other similar languages these form the [[Persion]] language group.  Because of this, the term "Persian" should be avoided as the name of the language.

====Translations====
*'''Arabic''': [[&#1601;&#1575;&#1585;&#1587;&#1610;]] 
*'''Armenian'''{{hy}}: [[&#1354;&#1377;&#1408;&#1405;&#1391;&#1381;&#1408;&#1381;&#1398;]] (Parskakan)
*'''Belarusian''': [[&#1055;&#1101;&#1088;&#1089;&#1110;&#1081;&#1076;&#1079;&#1082;&#1072;&#1103;]] (Persijdekaja)
*'''Chinese''': [[波斯语]] (Po-se)
*'''Czech''': [[Perský]]
*'''Dutch''': [[Perzisch]]
*'''German''': [[Persisch]]
*'''Estonian''': [[Pärsia]]
*'''Farsi''': [[فارسی]]
*'''Faeroese''': [[Persiskt]]
*'''Finnish''': [[Persia]]
*'''French''': [[Persan]]
*'''Georgian''': [[&#4321;&#4318;&#4304;&#4320;&#4321;&#4323;&#4314;&#4312;]] [[&#4324;&#4304;&#4320;&#4321;&#4312;&#4323;&#4314;&#4312;]]
*'''Modern Greek''': [[Περσικά]] (Persika)
*'''Hebrew''': [[&#1508;&#1512;&#1505;&#1497;&#1514;]]
*'''Hindi''': [[&#2347;&#2366;&#2352;&#2360;&#2368;]]
*'''Hungarian''': [[Perzsa]]
*'''Croatian''': [[Perzijski]]
*'''Japanese''': [[ファールシー]]
*'''Korean''': [[&#54036;&#49884;&#50612;]]
*'''Nepali''': [[&#2346;&#2352;&#2381;&#2360;&#2367;&#2351;&#2344; ]]
*'''Russian''': [[персидский]] (Persidskij)
*'''Vietnamese''': [[tiếng Ba Tư]]

===See also===
*[[Iran]]
*[[Iranian]]
*[[Persia]]
*[[Persian]]
*[[Dari]]

==== External links====
*[http://www.farsidic.com Persian-English Dictionary]

[[nl:Persian]]