==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[fætt]]''
===Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: făt
*[[IPA]]: /fæt/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>f{t</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-fat.ogg|Audio (US)}}
**[[Rhymes:English:-æt|Rhymes: -æt]]
===Adjective===
{{en-adj|fatt|er}}
# Rosie Laksevics.
# Carrying a larger than normal amount of fat on one's body.
#:''The '''fat''' man had trouble getting through the door.''
# [[thick|Thick]].
#:''The '''fat''' wallets of the men from the city brought joy to the peddlers.''
# [[bountiful|Bountiful]].
#Variant form of '''[[phat]]'''.
# {{sports}} A poorly played [[golf]] shot where the ball is struck by the top part of the club head. (See [[Thin]],[[Shank]],[[Toe]])

====Synonyms====
*(''carrying a larger than normal amount of fat''): [[chubby]], [[chunky]], [[corpulent]], [[lardy]] (''slang'') [[obese]], [[overweight]], [[plump]], [[porky]] (''slang''), [[rotund]], [[tubby]], [[well-fed]]
*(''thick''): [[thick]]
*(''bountiful''): [[bountiful]], [[prosperous]]

====Antonyms====
*(''carrying a larger than normal amount of fat''): [[lean]], [[skinny]], [[slim]], [[thin]]

====Translations====
'''carrying a larger than normal amount of fat on one's body'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[سمين]]}} (samiin)
*Arabic, Egyptian: {{ARchar|[[تخين]]}} (tixiin)
*Danish: [[fed]]
*Dutch: [[vet]], [[vette]], [[dik]], [[dikke]], [[gezet]], [[gezette]], [[corpulent]]
*Esperanto: [[grasa]], [[korpulenta]]
*Finnish: [[lihava]], [[läski]] (derogatory)
*French: [[gros]] ''m'', [[grosse]] ''f''
*German: [[dick#German|dick]]; [[fett]]
*Greek: [[χοντρός]] ''m'', [[χοντρή]] ''f'', [[χοντρό]] ''n''
*Hungarian: [[kövér]]
*Irish: [[ramhar]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[grasso]] ''m'', [[grassa]] ''f''
*Norwegian: [[feit]], [[korpulent]]
*Portuguese: [[gordo]]
*Russian: [[жирный]], [[толстый]]
*Latin: [[adeps]] ''nominative'', [[adipis]] ''genitive''
*Latvian: [[resns]] {{m}}, resna {{f}}
*Slovene: [[debel]] ''m'', [[debela]] ''f'', [[debelo]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[gordo]] ''m'', [[gorda]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[fet]], [[tjock]]
{{bottom}}

'''thick'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[dik]], [[dikke]], [[gezet]], [[gezette]], [[corpulent]]
*Esperanto: [[dika]]
*Finnish: [[paksu]]
*German: [[dick#German|dick]]; [[fett]]
*Irish: [[ramhar]]
*Italian: [[grosso]] {{m}}, [[grossa]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[gordo]]
*Russian: [[толстый]]
*Slovene: [[debel]] ''m'', [[debela]] ''f'', [[debelo]] ''n''
*Swedish: [[tjock]]
{{bottom}}

'''bountiful'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vet]], [[vette]]
*Finnish: [[satoisa]], [[lihava]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[gordo]]
*Swedish: [[fet]], [[rik]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[дебел]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Urdu}}: [[موٹا]] ''m'', [[موٹى]] ''f''

===Noun===
'''fat''' (''[[uncountable]] and countable; plural'' '''fats''')

#(''uncountable'') A specialized animal tissue with a high oil content, used for long-term storage of energy.
#(''countable'') A refined substance chemically resembling the oils in animal fat.
#That part of an organization deemed wasteful.
#:''We need to trim the fat in this company''
#(''countable, obsolete'') A large tub, cistern, or vessel; a vat.
#A person or animal that is overweight or [[obese]].

====Synonyms====
*(''animal tissue''): [[adipose tissue]], [[lard]] (''in animals''; ''derogatory slang when used of human fat'')
*(''substance chemically resembling the oils in animal fat''): [[grease]], [[lard]]
*(''tub''): [[vat]]

{{wikipediapar|Fat}}

====Quotations====

'''vat'''
*'''1882''': In 1431 New College purchases brewing vessels, under the names of a mash fat, for 6s. 10d., a wort fat for 2s., a 'Gilleding' tub for 2s. 6d., and two tunning barrels at 8d. each, a leaden boiler for 24s., another for 12s., and a great copper beer pot for 13s. 4d. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', volume 4, page 429.

====Translations====
'''specialized animal tissue with a high oil content, used for long-term storage of energy'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[fedt]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[vet]] ''n'', [[vetlaag]] ''f''
*Esperanto: [[graso]]
*Finnish: [[rasva]]; [[silava]] or [[läski]] (pork fat)
*French: [[gras]] ''m''
*German: [[Fett]] ''n''
*Greek: [[λίπος]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[zsír]]
*Italian: [[grasso]] {{m}}
*Norwegian: [[fett]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[gordura]] ''f''
*Russian: [[жир]] ''m'', [[сало]] ''n coll.''
*Spanish: [[grasa]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[fett]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[కొవ్వు]] (kovvu)
{{bottom}}

'''refined substance chemically resembling the oils in animal fat'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vet]] ''n''
*Esperanto: [[graso]]
*Finnish: [[rasva]]
*French: [[gras]] ''m'', [[matière grasse]] ''f''
*Italian: [[grasso]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[жир]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[grasa]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[fett]]
{{bottom}}

'''that part of an organization deemed wasteful'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''vat'''
''See'' '''[[vat]]'''

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[мазнина]] ''f''
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[tuk]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[tuk]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Urdu}}: [[چربى]]

===Transitive verb===
'''to fat'''

#(''archaic'') To make fat; to [[fatten]].
#:''kill the fatted calf''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Danish: [[opfede]]
*Dutch: [[vetmesten]]
*Esperanto: [[grasigi]]
*Finnish: [[lihottaa]]
*Italian: [[ingrassare]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[engordar]], [[cevar]]
*Russian: [[толстеть]]
*Swedish: [[göda]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[fat chance]]
*[[fatten]]

----

==Catalan==
===Etymology===
Latin [[fatum]]
===Noun===
'''fat'''

# [[fate]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

----

==French==
===Etymology===
Latin [[fatuus]]
===Noun===
'''fat'''

# [[conceited]]

[[Category:French adjectives]]

----

==Icelandic==
===Etymology===
Old Norse
===Noun===
'''fat''' {{n}}

# [[vessel]]
# piece of [[clothing]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==Norwegian==
===Noun===
{{no-noun-n1}}
#[[plate]]
#[[vat]]
#[[barrel]]

----

==Swedish==
{{sv-noun|gender=Neuter|fat|fatet|fat|faten|fats|fatets|fats|fatens}}
===Noun===
'''fat''' 
#[[saucer]]; a small dish
#[[plate]] (''serving dish'')
#[[barrel]] (''oil or wine''), [[cask]], [[keg]] (''beer'')
#[[barrel]]; a unit of volume. Usually refering to the oil barrel of 158.9873 liters

====Derived terms====
;saucer
*[[tefat]]
;serving dish
*[[serveringsfat]]
*[[kakfat]]
;barrel; container
*[[fatöl]]

====Idioms====
*''[[ha någons huvud på ett fat]]'' - have someone's head on a platter
*''[[det ligger någon i fatet]]'' - "it's in someone's plate" - about something that is, or is by others percieved as, an obstacle (physical or mental) to someone

----

==Volapük==
{{vo-noun|fat}}
===Etymology===
German ''[[Vater]]'', English ''[[father]]
===Noun===
'''fat'''

# [[father]]

[[Category:Volapük nouns]]
[[category:Swedish nouns]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[el:fat]]
[[es:fat]]
[[fr:fat]]
[[io:fat]]
[[it:fat]]
[[la:fat]]
[[hu:fat]]
[[ja:fat]]
[[ro:fat]]
[[ru:fat]]
[[simple:fat]]
[[fi:fat]]
[[sv:fat]]
[[ta:fat]]
[[vi:fat]]
[[vo:fat]]
[[zh:fat]]