==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /fiːɫ/

===Etymology===
Old English ''felan'' 
:[[akin]] to Old Norse ''falma'' to grope

===Transitive verb===
'''to feel''' ([[feels]], [[felt]], [[feeling]])
# To become aware of through the [[skin]]; to use the [[sense]] of [[touch]].
# To have a [[sensation]] of something without the use of touch, [[sight]], [[hearing]], [[smell]], or [[taste]].
# To [[find]] one's [[way]] ([[literally]] or [[figuratively]]) by touching or using cautious movements.
#: ''I felt my way through the darkened room.''
#: ''I felt my way cautiously through the dangerous business maneuver.''
# To be or become [[aware]] of.
# To experience [[emotion]] concerning.
# To experience the [[consequence]]s of.
# To [[think]], [[believe]], or have an [[impression]] concerning.

====Translations====
*Chinese: [[触]] (chu), [[摸]] (mo), [[感知]] (ganzhi)
*Danish: [[føle]] (touch)
*Dutch: [[voelen]] (touch)
*French: [[ressentir]]
*Indonesian: [[rasa|merasa]], [[rasa|merasakan]], [[anggap|menganggap]], [[anggap|beranggap]], [[anggap|beranggapan]] (touch)
*Italian: [[sentire]], [[sentirsi]]
*Japanese: [[感じる]] ([[かんじる]], kanjiru)

===Intransitive verb===
'''to feel''' ([[feels]], [[felt]], [[feeling]])

# To receive information by touch or by any [[neuron]]s other than those responsible for sight, smell, taste, or hearing.
# To [[grope]]; to examine by touch.
# To [[perceive]] a [[state]] of [[mind]] or of [[body]].

===Usage note===
* ''I feel bad.'' means either ''I seem to myself to be [[sick]].'' or ''I am full of [[regret]].''
* ''I feel badly.'' means ''I have [[trouble]] experiencing emotions.'' or ''I am not able to use the sense of touch well.''

===Noun===
'''feel''' ([[feels]])

# A quality of an object experienced by touch.
# A [[vague]] [[mental]] [[impression]].
# An act of [[fondle|fondling]].

===Derived terms===
*[[feeler]]
*[[feeling]]
*[[feel for]]
*[[feel like]]
*[[feel out]]
*[[feel up]]
*[[feel up to]]
*[[cop a feel]]

[[it:feel]]
[[fi:Feel]]