==English==

{{rank|history|master|latter|591|fellow|hardly|wind|drew}}

===Etymology===
Old Norse [[félagi]], from the Germanic bases of two words represented in English by [[fee]] and [[lay]].

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /'fɛləʊ/
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛləʊ|-ɛləʊ]]

===Noun===
'''fellow'''  (''plural:'' '''[[fellows]]''')
# A companion; a comrade; an associate; a partner; a sharer.
# A man without good breeding or worth; an ignoble or mean man.
# An equal in power, rank, character, etc.
# One of a pair, or of two things used together or suited to each other; a mate; the male.
# A person; an individual.
# In the English universities, a scholar who is appointed to a foundation called a fellowship, which gives a title to certain perquisites and privileges.
# In an American college or university, a member of the corporation which manages its business interests; also, a graduate appointed to a fellowship, who receives the income of the foundation.
# A member of a literary or scientific society; as, a Fellow of the Royal Society.

====Translations====
*Portuguese: [[companheiro]], [[camarada]], [[associado]], [[parceiro]], [[partidário]] (1), [[pessoa]], [[indivíduo]] (2), [[bolsista]] (6), [[acadêmico]], [[pesquisador]] (8)

====Derived terms====
*[[fellow-being]]
*[[fellow-citizen]] 
*[[fellow-countrymen]] 
*[[fellow-feeling]]
*[[fellow-passenger]]
*[[fellow-soldier]]
*[[fellow-student]]
*[[fellow-worker]]
*[[fellowship]] 
*[[good fellow]]
*[[hail-fellow-well-met]]
*[[poor fellow]]
*[[schoolfellow]]

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|fellow||}}
# To suit with; to [[pair]] with; to [[match]].

[[fr:fellow]]
[[io:fellow]]
[[it:fellow]]
[[hu:fellow]]
[[fi:fellow]]
[[zh:fellow]]