{{disambig}}
A '''fiasco''' means a complete or humiliating failure, especially of a pretentious undertaking. 

The [[Concise Oxford Dictionary]] gives '''fiascos''' as the plural, although '''fiascoes''' is also seen, especially in the [[United States]].

The word is an [[Italian language|Italian]] word meaning a "flask" or the type of round wine [[bottle]], sometimes wrapped in straw, used traditionally for [[Chianti]] wine.  The Concise Oxford notes that the allusion is unexplained, but various possibilities have been suggested.  The more modern [[Compact Oxford Dictionary]] states that the word is borrowed from an Italian phrase ''far fiasco'', literally "to make a bottle", figuratively "to fail [in a performance]".  This is similar to the informal [[United Kingdom|British]] English usage of "to bottle out" meaning to "lose one's nerve".  In modern American usage, the word '''fiasco''' is often used to mean "a mess" rather than "a failure". This altered usage has become common in both broadcast and print media as well as casual conversation.

==Fiasco used as a name==

* '''''Fiasco''''' is the [[English language|English]] title of a [[science fiction]] novel by Polish [[Stanisław Lem]] about an expedition sent to a distant star in order to make contact with a civilization that had been detected there. The attempt ends, as the title promises, in complete failure. See [[Fiasko]].
* In the [[novel]] ''[[Money (novel)|Money]]'' by [[Martin Amis]] the anti-hero John Self drives a '''Fiasco''' [[De Lorean DMC-12|sports car]] that is forever breaking down.
* '''Fiasco''' is also the name of an open-source [[L4 microkernel family|L4-compatible]] [[Microkernel|microkernel operating system]] developed at [[TU Dresden]].  See [[Fiasco (L4 clone)]].
* '''Fiasco''' was formerly the name of [[PSPP]]; a Free version of SPSS.

==Some fiascos in history==

*The [[Mongol]]s first attempt at invading [[Japan]] (1281); see [[Kamikaze (typhoon)|Kamikaze]]. 
*The [[Spanish Armada]] attempted conquest of Britain (1588).
*The launching of the [[Regalskeppet Vasa|Vasa]] (1628).
*The [[Bay of Pigs invasion]] (1961).
*The Japanese [[fifth generation computer systems project]] (1982–1993).
*The [[Iridium (satellite)|Iridium]] project (1998-1999).
*The [[dot-com bubble]] (1998-2002).

==References==

* [[Concise Oxford Dictionary]], ''s. v.'' fiasco
* [http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/fiasco Compact Oxford English Dictionary on-line]
* [http://www.randomhouse.com/wotd/index.pperl?date=20001207 Fiasco: The Mavens' Word of the Day, Random House, December 2000]


[[de:Fiasko]]
[[it:Fiasco]]
[[nl:Fiasco]]