==English==
{{wikipedia}} 

===Etymology===
From Spanish ''[[Filipinas]]''; from Spanish ''[[Felipe]]'', attributed to the King of Spain

<!-- ad-hoc pronunciations not supported
===Pronunciation===
* fi-li-peeh'-no
* peeh-li-peeh'-noh -->

===Proper noun===
'''Filipino'''

# One of two national languages of the [[Philippines]], the other being English. Filipino is based on [[Tagalog]].

====Synonyms====
*{{italbrac|language}} [[Pilipino]]<!--Wikipedia makes it seem like not quite a synonym-->

===Proper noun===
'''Filipino''' {{m}}/{{f}}/{{n}}, '''[[Filipina]]''' {{f}} (''plural:'' '''[[Filipinos]]''' {{m}}/{{f}}/{{n}}, '''[[Filipinas]]''' {{f}})

# [[nationality|Nationality]] of residents or citizens of the [[Philippines]].
# [[ethnicity|Ethnicity]] of people identified with the Philippines, its culture{{,}} and heritage.

====Synonyms====
*{{italbrac|ethnicity}} [[Flip]], [[Noypi]], [[Pinoy]], [[Pinay]]

===Adjective===
'''Filipino'''

# Of or pertaining to the [[Philippines]] or its [[people]].
# Of or pertaining to Filipino, the language of the [[Philippines]].

====Synonyms====
*{{italbrac|of the Philippines or its people}} [[Philippine]]

====Derived terms====
*[[Filipino American]]<!--kung sino ka man, kung anu-ano ang pinaglalagay mo dito,  I edited some of the ad-hocs you put in-->

===Usage notes===
'''Pinoy''' is a slang term that caught on with the Florante song “Akoy isang Pinoy”("I am a Pinoy") that became mainstream with Filipino culture (made by appending y to Fili-''pino'') to denote their country of origin and background.

'''Kabayan''' is the proper way to address fellow Filipinos (meaning “coming from the the same part of town/area”).

'''Noypi''' is a colloquial variation of Pinoy (the syllables reversed).

'''FLIP''' was considerd derogatory, though this is debatable. Folk etymology claims that it was coined by American soldiers from World War II to mean “Fucking Little Island Person”, but its true origin is in dispute.

North American Filipinos have loosely used FLIP to describe their background. A plausible origin of the term is that it is a shortning of the word  ''Filipino'', and it sounds distinctive and blends with popular culture.

===Related terms===
*[[Fil-]]
*[[Fil-Am]]

===See also===
*[[Malay]]
*[[Malayo-Polynesian]]
*[[Wiktionary:Filipino index]]

----

----

==Filipino==
===Noun===
'''Filipino'''

# [[#English|Filipino]].

===Synonyms===
*[[Pilipino]] ''(the former name)''

[[Category:English eponyms]]
[[Category:Languages]]

[[de:Filipino]]
[[nl:Filipino]]
[[tl:Filipino]]