==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: fĭn'ĭsh
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˈfɪnɪʃ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /<tt>"fInIS</tt>/

====Homophones====
*[[Finnish]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

# The [[end]] of anything.
# A protective coating given to wood or metal and other surfaces.
#:''The car's finish was so shiny and new''.
# A score similar to a touchdown in the game of [[scuffleball]], worth four points.
# (of textiles) The result of any process changing the physical or chemical properties of cloth.
====Translations====

'''end'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[meta]] ''f'', [[fita]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[终结]]
*Danish: [[slutning]] ''c''
*Dutch: [[eindstreep]] ''f'', finish ''f'', [[meet]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[loppu]], [[maali]]
*French: [[fin]] ''f''
*German: [[Ende]] ''n''
*Interlingua: [[fin]], [[termination]]
*Italian: [[fine]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[Avslutningen]]
*Portuguese: [[fim]] ''m'', [[acabamento]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[meta]] ''f'', [[fin]] ''m''
*Volapük: [[fin]], [[finük]]
{{bottom}}

'''protective coating'''
{{top}}
*Danish: finish ''c''
*Finnish: [[pintakäsittely]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[fini]] ''m''
*German: [[Lack]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''score in scuffleball'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|fini|sh|}}

# {{transitive}}: To complete (something).
#:''Please '''finish''' your homework!''.
# {{transitive}}: To apply a treatment to (a surface, etc).
#:''The furniture was '''finished''' in teak veneer.''
# {{transitive}}: To change an animal's food supply in the months before it is due for slaughter, with the intention of fattening the animal.
#:''Due to BSE, cows in the United Kingdom must be finished and slaughtered before 30 months of age''
# {{intransitive}}: To come to an end.
#:''The song has finished.''

====Translations====

'''to complete'''
{{top}}
*Czech: [[končit]]
*Dutch: [[afwerken]], [[beëindigen]]
*Finnish: [[lopettaa]] (1), [[viimeistellä]] (2)
*French: [[finir]], [[achever]]
*Galician: [[acabar]]
*German: [[beenden]]
*Interlingua: [[finir]], [[terminar]]
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[críochnaigh]]
*Italian: [[finire]]
*Norwegian: [[avslutte]]
*Portuguese: [[acabar]]
*Spanish: [[acabar]], [[terminar]]
*Telugu: [[ముగించు]] (mugimchu) [[పూర్తిచేయు]] (poorthicheyu)
*Volapük: [[fimekön]], [[finükön]], [[lemekön]]
{{bottom}}

'''to apply a final treatment to'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[viimeistellä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to come to an end'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[ophouden]], [[eindigen]], [[gedaan zijn]]
*French: [[finir]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[finire]]
*Telugu: [[అంతమవు]] (antamavu), [[పూర్తవు]] (poortavu)
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[finish line]]
*[[finishing school]]

----

==Danish==
===Noun===
'''finish''' ''c''

#finish (''protective coating'')

----
==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''finish''' ''f''

#finish, end

[[es:finish]]
[[fr:finish]]
[[io:finish]]
[[it:finish]]
[[hu:finish]]
[[scn:finish]]
[[fi:finish]]
[[ta:finish]]
[[vi:finish]]
[[zh:finish]]