==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*(''British'', ''Australian'') fīə(r), /faɪə(r)/, /faI@(r)/
*(''US'') fīr, /faɪr/, /faIr/

=== Noun ===
'''fire''' (''[[uncountable]] and [[countable]]''; ''plural'' '''[[fires]]''')

#A chemical reaction involving the bonding of [[oxygen]] with [[carbon]] and related compounds, with the production of a flame.
#Something that has produced or is capable of producing this chemical reaction (such as a campfire or fireplace)
#(''alchemy'') One of the four basic elements.
#The destruction of something by fire, especially when accidental.
#:''There was a fire at the school last night and the whole place burned down.''

==== Translations ====

'''chemical reaction'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Danish: [[ild]] ''c''
*French: [[feu]] ''m''
*German: [[Feuer]] ''n''
*Italian: [[fuoco]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Japanese: [[火]] ([[ひ]], hi)
*Latin: [[ignis]] ''m''
*Russian: [[огонь]]
*Swedish: [[eld]] ''c'', [[brand]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''something that has produced or is capable of producing this chemical reaction, such as a campfire or fireplace'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Danish: [[ild]] ''c''
*French: [[feu]] ''m''
*German: [[Feuer]] ''n''
*Italian: [[fuoco]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Latin: [[focus]] ''m''
*Russian: [[костёр]], [[пожар]]
*Swedish: [[eld]] ''c'', [[brasa]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''in alchemy'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[feu]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Swedish: [[eld]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''destruction of something by fire, especially when accidental'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[incendie]] ''f''
*German: [[Feuer]] ''n''
*Italian: [[incendio]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Swedish: [[brand#Swedish|brand]] ''c''
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*[[Basque]]: [[su#Basque|su]]
*Bulgarian: [[огън]] ''m''
*Chinese Characters: [[火]]
*Chinese: [[火]]
*Czech: [[oheň]]
*Dutch: [[vuur]] ''n'',[[brand#Dutch|brand]] ''n''
*[[Ekspreso]]: [[foko]], [[igno]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[fajro]]
*Finnish: [[tuli]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[fjoer]]
*Greek (ancient): πύρ (pyr)
*[[Guarani]]: [[ata]] (t-)
*Hebrew: [[אש|אֵשׁ]] ''f''
*[[Hindi]]: [[आग]] (aag)
*Indonesian: [[api]], [[nyala]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[foco]], [[igne]]
*Korean: [[火]] ([[불]], bool)
*[[Lao]]: [[ໄຟ]]
*Malay: [[pawaka]]
*Polish [[ogień]] ''m'' (1, 3) [[pożar]] ''m'' (4)
*Portuguese: [[fogo]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[foc]] ''n''
*Slovak: [[oheň]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[ogenj]] ''m'' (1,3), [[požar]] ''m'' (4)
*Spanish: [[fuego]] ''m''
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[atá]] (t-)
*Turkish: [[ateş]]
*[[Tzotzil]]: [[k'ok']]
*[[Volapük]]: [[fil#Volapük|fil]], [[filed#Volapük|filed]]
*Welsh: [[fflagl]]

====Derived terms====
*[[fiery]]
*[[firearm]]
*[[fireblast]]
*[[firebolt]]
*[[fireclay]]
*[[fire department]], [[fire station]]
*[[fire engine]], [[fire truck]]
*[[fire-fight]], [[firefight]]
*[[firefighter]], [[fireman]], [[firewoman]]
*[[firefly]]
*[[fire hose]]
*[[firehouse]]
*[[fire hydrant]], [[fireplug]]
*[[fireplace]]
*[[fire-starter]]
*[[fire up]]
*[[firewire]]
*[[bonfire]]
*[[brush-fire]], [[brush fire]]
*[[bushfire]]
*[[campfire]]
*[[ceasefire]]
*[[forest fire]]
*[[friendly fire]]
*[[grass fire]], [[grassfire]]
*[[on fire]]
*[[open fire]]

===Transitive verb===
'''to fire''' (''past tense and past participle'' '''fired''')

#To set (something) on fire.
#To shoot (a gun or other explosive propelled device).
#To terminate the [[employment]] contract of (an employee), usually because of the misconduct of the employee (as opposed to "make [[redundant]]" or "lay off",  where the employee's actions are not the reason for the termination).
#To heat ([[pottery]], [[ceramic]] etc), usually in a [[kiln]] to make the clay non-soluble or to affix a glaze.

====Synonyms====

*(''set on fire''): ''See'' [[set on fire]]
*(''shoot''): [[let off]], [[shoot]]
*(''terminate the employment of''): [[sack]].

==== Translations ====

'''set on fire'''
''See'' [[set on fire]]

'''shoot'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[tirer]]
*German: [[schießen]], [[feuern]]
*Italian: [[sparare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''terminate the employment of'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[licencier]], [[mettre à la porte]]
*German: [[feuern]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''heat (pottery, etc)'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*German: [[brennen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Bulgarian: [[паля]], [[запалвам]] (1, 4), [[стрелям]] (2), [[уволнявам]] (3)
*Chinese: [[開火]],[[开火]](2)
*Dutch: [[vuren]] (1), [[afvuren]] (1), [[schieten]] (1), [[ontslaan]] (2)
*Finnish: [[sytyttää]] (1), [[tulittaa]] (2), [[erottaa]] (3)
*Frisian: [[sjitte]] (1), [[dien jaan]] (2)
*Hebrew: [[להצית]] (Le'ha'zit) (1), [[לירות]] (Li'rot) (2), [[לפטר]] (Le'fa'ter) (3)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[tirar]] (1); [[dimitter]] (2)
*Japanese: [[火をつける]] (hio-tsukeru), [[点火する]] (tenka-suru)(1); [[発砲する]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[disparar]] (1), [[atirar]] (1); [[demitir]] (2), [[despedir]] (2)
*Russian: [[поджечь]], [[стрелять]] 
*Slovak: [[zapáliť]] (1), [[vystreliť]] (2), [[vyhodiť]] (3)
*Slovene: [[zažgati]] (1), [[izstreliti]] (2), [[odpustiti]] (3)
*Spanish: [[disparar]] (1), [[despedir]] (2), [[echar]] (2)
*Swedish: [[tända]] (1), [[avfyra]] (2), [[avskeda]], [[sparka]] (informal) (3)

===Intransitive verb===
'''to fire''' (''past tense and past participle'' '''fired''')

#To shoot a gun, a cannon or a similar weapon.
#(''physiology'') To cause an [[action potential]] in a cell.

====Synonyms====

*(''shoot a weapon''): [[open fire]], [[shoot]]

====Translations====

'''shoot a weapon'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''cause an action potential in a cell'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

----
==Danish==
'''fire'''

#[[four]]

----
==Norwegian==
'''fire'''

#[[four]]

[[es:fire]][[pl:fire]]