==English==
===Etymology===
From English ''[[fire]]'' + ''(hu)[[man]]''

===Noun===
'''fireman''' (''plural:'' '''firemen''')
#One skilled in the work of fighting [[fire]].
##Extinguishing the fire through the process of cooling or [[smother]]ing it; usually with a [[fire hose]] or [[fire extinguisher]], or by removing the fuel. Firemen are often called upon for related duties, such as [[fire prevention]] and [[emergency medical services]].
##Locating and rescuing people (and animals) trapped within the fire.
##Driving of the [[fire engine]] to and from the emergency.
#A fireman that is of the male sex. (See usage note)
#A man who keeps the [[fire]] going underneath a [[steam]] [[boiler]] (originally, [[shovel]]ing [[coal]] by hand), particularly on a [[railroad]] [[locomotive]].
#:a. By extension, an assistant on any locomotive, whether steam-powered or not.
#{{baseball}} A relief pitcher

====Usage notes====
'''Fireman''' and its plural were, in the past, frequently used to refer to all firefighters. Today, for a female firefighter, ''[[firewoman]]'' or ''firefighter'' is generally preferred.  Additionally, in referring to a group of firefighters, especially one that has women in it, ''firefighters'' is generally the preferred term.

====Synonyms====
*[[firefighter]]

====Related terms====
*[[fire truck]], [[fire engine]]
*[[fire extinguisher]]
*[[fire hose]]
*[[fire station]]
*[[fire hydrant]], [[fireplug]]

====Translations====
*Chinese: [[消防员]]/[[消防員]] (xiaofangyun)
*Dutch: [[brandweerman]], [[mannelijke brandbestrijder]]
*[[Esperanto]]:  [[fajroestingisto]]
*French: [[pompier]]
*German: [[Feuerwehrmann]]
*Greek: [[πυροσβέστης]]
*Hungarian: [[tűzoltó]]
*Italian: [[vigile del fuoco]]
*Japanese: [[消防士]] (shōbōshi)
*Korean: [[기관병]] (gigwanbyeong)
*[[w:Latin language|Latin]]: [[vigil ignis]] ''nom.'', vigilis ignis ''gen.''
*Spanish: [[bombero]]

[[Category:English nouns with irregular plurals]]

[[gl:fireman]]
[[it:fireman]]
[[hu:fireman]]
[[ta:fireman]]
[[vi:fireman]]
[[zh:fireman]]