==English==

===Etymology===
From Late Anglo-Saxon ''[[flanc]]'', from Old French ''[[flanc]]'', from a Germanic source, probably Frankish ''*hlanca''

===Pronunciation===
* [[Wiktionary:Pronunciation_key|IPA]]: /flæŋk/
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æŋk|-æŋk]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-notcomp}}

# ''Nautical:'' Maximum (of speed).  Historically faster than ''full'' speed (the most a vessel can sustain without excessive engine wear or risk of damage), now frequently used interchangeably.  Typically used in an emergency or during an attack (''All ahead flank!''). 

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# The flesh between the last rib and the hip; the side.
# A cut of meat from the flank of an animal.
# The side of a military formation.
# A side of something.

====Synonyms====
(''all'')
* [[side]]

(''side of formation'')
* [[wing]]

====Translations====
'''flesh between the last rib and the hip'''
{{top}}
*Estonian: [[külg]]
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[kylki]]
{{bottom}}

'''meat from the flank'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kylki]], [[kylkipala]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[sida]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''side of military formation'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sivusta]], [[sivu]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[sida]] ''c'', flank ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''side'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sivu]], [[puoli]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[sida]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|flank||}}  ''[[transitive]]''

# To attack the flank(s) of something.
# To defend the flank(s) of something.
# To place to the side(s) of something.
# To be placed to the side(s) of something (usually in terms of two objects, one on each side.)

[[fr:flank]]
[[io:flank]]
[[it:flank]]
[[pl:flank]]
[[zh:flank]]