==French==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[florem]]'', the accusative of ''[[flos]]'', ''[[floris]]'' ("flower" or "the finest part of something")

===Pronunciation===
{{wikipedia|lang=fr}}

'''fleur'''
*[[IPA]]: /flœʁ/
*[[X-SAMPA]]: /fl9R/

'''une fleur'''
*[[IPA]]: /yn.flə:ʁ/
*[[X-SAMPA]]: /yn.fl@:R/
*{{audio|Fr-une fleur-fr-ouest.ogg|Audio (Western France)}}

===Noun===
'''fleur''' {{f}} (''plural'' '''fleurs''')

# {{botany}} [[flower|Flower]]; [[bloom]]; [[blossom]]; collectively, the [[reproductive]] [[organ]]s and the envelope which surrounds them in [[angiosperm]]s (also called "flowering plants").
#:* Je suis allé cueillir une fleur dans les champs.
#:*:''I went to pick a flower in the fields.''
#:* Il m’a offert de magnifiques fleurs.
#:*:''He offered me magnificent flowers.''
# {{cattag|by metonymy}} [[flowering plant|Flowering plant]]; [[angiosperm]]; the plant with flowers itself.
#:* Les orchidées sont des fleurs recherchées.
#:*:''Orchids are the flowers sought.''
# {{figurative}} A kind [[favor]] given by one person to another.
#:* Il m’a fait une fleur.
#:*:''He gave me a kind favor.''
# {{figurative}} The [[best]] of something.
#:* Voici la fine fleur de la jeunesse française.
#:*:''Here's the cream of the crop of French youth.''
#:* Mourir à la fleur de l’âge. 
#:*:''to die in the prime of life''
# {{cattag|by metaphor}} The [[virginity]] of a woman.
#*Jean de la Fontaine, ''Fables''
#*:Il est bon de garder sa fleur ; mais pour l’avoir perdue il ne se faut pas pendre
#*::''It is wise to gaurd one's flower, but to have lost it one should not hang.''
# {{cattag|archaic|chemistry}} Substances with a state of [[purity]] or extreme [[separation]], produced by [[sublimation]]. 
#:*Fleurs de soufre, de zinc, d’arsenic, d’antimoine.
#:*:''refinements of sulfer, zinc, arsenic, antimony''

[[de:fleur]]
[[et:fleur]]
[[el:fleur]]
[[es:fleur]]
[[fr:fleur]]
[[ko:fleur]]
[[io:fleur]]
[[id:fleur]]
[[ku:fleur]]
[[hu:fleur]]
[[vi:fleur]]
[[zh:fleur]]