==English==

===Pronunciation===
*flīt, /flaɪt/, /<tt>flaIt</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-aɪt|Rhymes: -aɪt]]

===Adjective===
'''flight'''

# ''(obscure or slang):'' Wayward, opposed.
#:''Note: Nowadays we refer to people being [[flighty]] instead.''

===Noun===
'''flight''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''[[flights]]''')

# The act of [[fly]]ing.
#:''Birds are capable of flight''
# An instance of flying.
#:''The migrating birds' flight took them to Africa.''
# A collective term for [[dove]]s or [[swallow]]s.
# A journey made by a plane or space shuttle. It isn't used for journeys of other air or space vehicles.
#:''The flight to Paris leaves at 7 o'clock tonight''
# The act of [[flee]]ing. (It is noun version of flee).
#:''take flight'''
# A set of stairs or an escalator.  A series of stairs between [[Landing|landings]].
# A floor which are reached to by stairs or escalators.
#:''How many flights is it up?''
# A [[feather]] on an [[arrow]] or [[dart]] used to help it follow an even path.
# A paper plane.
# {{cricket}}: The [[movement]] of a [[spinning]] [[ball]] through the [[air]] - concerns its [[speed]], [[trajectory]] and [[drift]].
# The [[ballistic]] [[trajectory]] of an [[arrow]] or other [[projectile]].
# A [[Aerodynamics|aerodynamic]] surfaces designed to guide such a projectile's trajectory.
# Act of fleeing of a [[refugee]] or a [[fugitive]].
# An [[air force]] unit.
# Several sample glasses of a specific wine [[varietal]]. The pours are smaller than a full glass and the flight will generally include three to five different samples.

===Translations===

'''act of flying'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[flyvning]] ''c''
*Finnish: [[lento]]
*Dutch: [[vlucht]] ''f'', [[vliegen]] ''n''
*German: [[Flug]] ''m''
*[[Guarani]]: [[veve]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[volo]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[firr]]
*Portuguese: [[vôo]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[zbor]] ''n''
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[bebé]]
*[[Turkish:]] [[uçma]]
{{bottom}}

'''instance of flying'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''group of doves or swallows'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


'''journey made by an aircraft'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[volo]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[flight]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''act of fleeing'''
{{top}}
*French: [[fuite]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[fuga]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[flykt]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''set of stairs'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''feather on an arrow'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[flight path]]
*[[in-flight]]
*[[maiden flight]]
*[[take flight]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:flight]]
[[fr:flight]]
[[it:flight]]
[[hu:flight]]
[[fi:flight]]