==English==

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|float|||}}

#Of an object or substance, to be supported by a liquid of greater density than the object so as that part of the object or substance remains above the surface.
#:''The boat floated on the water.''
#:''The oil floated on the vinegar.''
#To be capable of floating.
#:''That boat doesn't float.''
#:''Oil floats on vinegar.''
#To drift gently through the air.
#:''The balloon floated off into the distance.''
#To move in a particular direction with the liquid in which one is floating
#:''I'd love to just float downstream.''
#To move in a fluid manner.
#:''The dancer floated gracefully around the stage.''
#To automatically adjust a parameter as related parameters change.
#(''[[finance]]'') To allow a price to be determined by the markets as opposed to by rule.
#:''The yen floats against the dollar.''

====Translations====

'''be supported by a liquid'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[drijven]]
*Finnish: [[kellua]]
*French: [[flotter]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[galleggiare]]
*Russian: [[плавать]], [[всплыть]] (to reach the surface)
{{bottom}}

'''be capable of floating'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[drijven]]
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[kellua]], [[pysyä]] [[pinta|pinnalla]]
{{bottom}}

'''drift gently through the air'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[leijua]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[парить]], [[плыть]]
{{bottom}}

'''move in a particular direction with the liquid in which one is floating'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[meedrijven]]
*Finnish: [[lipua]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[плыть]]
{{bottom}}

'''move in a fluid manner'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vloeien]]
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[lipua]], [[leijua]]
{{bottom}}

'''automatically adjust a parameter as related parameters change'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vloeien]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''allow a price to be determined by the markets as opposed to by rule'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kellua]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|float|||}}

#To propose (an idea) for consideration.
#:''I floated the idea of free ice-cream on Fridays, but no one was interested.''
#To extend a short-term loan to.
#:''Could you float me $50 until payday?''

====Translations====

'''propose for consideration'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[te water laten]], [[voorstellen]]
*Finnish: [[ehdottaa]], [[heittää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''extend a short-term loan to'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|French}}: [[flotter]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[schwimmen]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[flotacar]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[flotar]]

===Noun===
'''float''' (''plural'' '''floats''')

#A [[buoyant]] device used to support something in water or another liquid.
#A sort of [[trowel]] used for finishing [[concrete]] surfaces.
#An elaborately decorated trailer or vehicle, intended for display in a [[parade]] or [[pageant]].
#(''finance'') Funds committed to be paid but not yet paid.
#(''banking'') The total amount of checks/cheques or other drafts written against a bank account but not yet cleared and charged against the account.
#(''insurance'') Premiums taken in but not yet paid out.
#(''programming'') Short form of [[floating-point number]].
#A [[soft]] beverage with a [[scoop]] of vanilla [[ice-cream]] floating in it.

====Translations====

'''buoyant device used to support something in liquid'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vlot]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[koho]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[плот]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''sort of trowel'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''trailer in parade'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[платформа]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''funds committed to be paid but not yet paid'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''banking: total amount of checks/cheques or other drafts written against a bank'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''insurance: premiums taken in but not yet paid out'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''programming: short form of floating-point number'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vlottende kommagetal]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[liukuluku]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''soft beverage with a scoop of vanilla ice-cream floating in it'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Liquids]]

[[fr:float]]
[[io:float]]
[[it:float]]
[[ru:float]]
[[zh:float]]