{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Middle English [[flod]], from Old English [[flod|flód]], from common Germanic ''*flōduz'', from Proto-Indo-European ''*plō-tu-'', derived from ''*pleu-'' "to flow". Near cognates include German [[Flut]] and Gothic [[𐍆𐌻𐍉𐌳𐌿𐍃]] (flōdus).  

===Pronunciation===
*flŭd, /flʌd/, /<tt>flVd</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ʌd|Rhymes: -ʌd]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A (usually disastrous) overflow of [[water]] from a [[lake]] or other [[body of water]] due to excessive [[rainfall]] or other input of water.
# (''figuratively'') A large number or quantity of anything appearing more rapidly than can easily be dealt with.

====Translations====
'''overflow of water'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[наводнение]], (navodnenie)
*Chinese: [[洪水]] (hóngshǔi)
*Czech: [[povodeň]],[[záplava]] 
*Danish: [[oversvømmelse]] ''c''
*Dutch: [[overstroming]] ''f'', [[vloed]] ''de''
*Estonian: [[veetulv]]
*Finnish: [[tulva]]
*French: [[inondation]] ''f''
*German: [[Flut]] ''f''
*Greek, ancient: [[κατακλυσμός]] (cataclysmos) ''m''
*Greek, modern: [[πλημμύρα]] ''f'' (plimira)
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[árvíz]]
*Italian: [[inondazione]] ''f'', [[alluvione]] ''f'' <ref name=oxf-par>''Oxford-Paravia Concise - Dizionario Inglese-Italiano e Italiano-Inglese''. Edited by Maria Cristina Bareggi. Torino: Paravia, 2003 (in collaboration with Oxford University Press). [[W:Wikipedia:book sources| ISBN 8839551107]]. Online version [http://www.oxfordparavia.it/ here]</ref>
*Japanese: [[洪水]] ([[こうずい]], kouzui)
*Korean: [[홍수]] (hong-su)
*Latin: [[diluvium]] ''n'', [[inundatio]] ''f''
*Polish: [[powódź]] ''f'', [[potop]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[inundação]] ''f''
*Russian: [[наводнение]] (navodn'énije) ''n''
*Spanish: [[inundación]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[översvämning]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[వరద]] (varada), [[వెల్లువ]] (velluva)
{{bottom}}
*Thai, [[น้ำท่วม]] (namtuam)

'''large number or quantity'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ryöppy]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[marea]] <ref name=oxf-par />
*Russian: [[наплыв]] (naplýv) {{m}}
{{bottom}}

====Related Terms====
*[[outburst flood]] <!--(''geology'') catastrophic flooding from a glacier-->

===Verb===
{{conj|flood|floods|flooded|flooded|flooding}}
#To [[overflow]].
#To cover or partly fill as if by a flood.
#:''The floor was flooded with beer.''
#:''They flooded the room with sewage.''
#(''figuratively'') To provide (someone or something) with a larger number or quantity of something than can easily be dealt with.
#:''The station's switchboard was flooded with listeners making complaints.''

====Synonyms====
*(overflow):
*(cover): [[inundate]]
*(provide with large number): [[inundate]], [[swamp]], [[deluge]]

====Translations====

'''overflow'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tulvia]]
*Greek, ancient: [[κατακλύζω]] (cataclyzō)
*Italian: [[allagare]], [[inondare]], (''river, intransitive'') [[straripare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[氾濫する]]
*Latin: [[inundare]], [[diluviare]]
*Swedish: [[svämma över]], [[översvämma]]
{{bottom}}

'''cover as if by a flood'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ryöpytä]]
*Italian: [[allagare]], [[inondare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{mid}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ముంచెత్తు]] (muMchettu), [[వెల్లువెత్తు]] (velluvettu)
{{bottom}}

'''provide with a large number of quantity'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[inondare]], [[subissare]] <ref name=oxf-par />
{{mid}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ముంచెత్తు]] (muMchettu)
{{bottom}}

====References====
<references/>

[[Category:Liquids]]

[[fr:flood]]
[[io:flood]]
[[it:flood]]
[[hu:flood]]
[[ja:flood]]
[[pl:flood]]
[[fi:flood]]
[[ta:flood]]
[[zh:flood]]