==English==

{{rank|main|q|greatly|981|floor|example|class|century}}

===Etymology===
Old English [[flor|flōr]].  Cognate with Dutch [[vloer]], German [[Flur]] ‘[[field]], floor, [[entrance hall]]’, Swedish [[flor]] ‘floor of a cow stall’.  Perhaps related to Irish [[urlár]],  Gaelic [[lar]] ‘floor, [[ground]], [[earth]]’, Welsh [[llawr]].
[[Category:Old English derivations]]

===Pronunciation===
*(''RP''): flô, /flɔː/, /<tt>flO:</tt>/
*(''US''): flôr, /flɔːr/, /<tt>flO:r</tt>/
**[[rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)|Rhymes: -ɔː(r)]]

====Homophones====
*[[flaw]] (''in [[non-rhotic]] accents'')

===Noun===
'''floor''' (''plural'' '''floors''')

#The bottom or lower part of any room; the supporting surface of a room.
#A structure formed of beams, girders, etc, with proper covering, which divides a building horizontally into [[storey]]s/[[story|stories]].
#The supporting surface or platform of a structure such as a bridge.
#A [[storey]]/[[story]] of a building.
#In a [[legislative assembly]], the part of the house assigned to the members.
#(''US'') Hence, the right to speak at a given time in a legislative assembly.
#(''nautical'') That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelson which is most nearly horizontal.
#(''mining'') The rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit.
#(''mining'') A horizontal, flat ore body.

====Synonyms====
*(right to speak): (''British'') [[possession]]

====Translations====
'''lower part of a room'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[pod#Bosnian|pod]] {{m}}, [[patos#Bosnian|patos]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[pod#Croatian|pod]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[gulv]] {{n}}
*Estonian: [[põrand]]
*Finnish: [[lattia]]
*French: [[sol]] {{m}}
*German: [[Boden]] {{m}}
*Irish: [[urlár]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[pavimento]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[바닥]] ''badak''
*Old English: [[flor|flōr]], [[flet]]
*Polish: [[podłoga]] {{f}}
*Serbian:
:Cyrillic: [[под#Serbian|под]] {{m}}, [[патос#Serbian|патос]] {{m}}
:Roman: [[pod#Serbian|pod]] {{m}}, [[patos#Serbian|patos]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[suelo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[golv]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''horizontal structure dividing a building'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Decke]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''supporting surface of a structure'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Plattform]] {{f}}, [[Decke]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''storey/story'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[sprat#Bosnian|sprat]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[kat#Croatian|kat]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[etage]] {{c}}
*French: [[étage]] {{f}}
*German: [[Etage]] {{f}}, [[Geschoß]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[piano#Italian|piano]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[piętro]] {{n}}, [[kondygnacja]] {{f}}
*Serbian:
:Cyrillic: [[спрат#Serbian|спрат]] {{m}}
:Roman: [[sprat#Serbian|sprat]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[piso]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[våning]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''part of the house assigned to the members of a legislative assembly'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Etage]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''right to speak in a legislative assembly'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''near-horizontal part of a vessel'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''horizontal, flat ore body'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[под]] (pod) {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[tla]] ''n pl'' (1), [[nadstropje]] ''n'' (4)

===Transitive verb===
'''to floor''' (''[[present participle]]'' '''flooring''', ''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''floored''')

#To cover (something) with a floor; to furnish (something) with a floor.
#:''floor a house with pine boards''
#To strike down or lay level (something or someone) with the floor; to knock (something or someone) down
#Hence, to silence (someone) by a conclusive answer or retort.
#:''floor an opponent''
#:''Floored or crushed by him.'' &mdash; Coleridge
#(''colloquial'') To finish or make an end of (something).
#:''floor a college examination''
#:''I've floored my little-go work'' &mdash; ed Hughes

====Translations====

'''cover with a floor'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[podpoditi#Bosnian|podpoditi]], [[patosati#Bosnian|patosati]]
*German: [[belegen]]
{{mid}}
*Serbian:
:Cyrillic: [[подподити#Serbian|подподити]], [[патосати#Serbian|патосати]]
:Roman: [[podpoditi#Serbian|podpoditi]], [[patosati#Serbian|patosati]]
*Swedish: [[lägga golv]]
{{bottom}}

'''strike down'''
{{top}}
*German: [[niederschlagen]]
*Swedish: [[golva]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''silence with a conclusive answer'''
{{top}}
*German: [[niederschmettern]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: to finish or make an end of'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

To be checked and transferred to the appropriate table(s) by native speakers (numbering might not be correct):
*Danish: [[lægge gulv]] (1); [[nedlægge]] (2)

===Related terms===
*[[back to the floor]]
*[[dance floor]]
*[[floor cloth]] <!--{Floor cloth}, a heavy fabric, painted, varnished, or saturated, with waterproof material, for covering floors; oilcloth. -->
*[[floor cramp]] <!--{Floor cramp}, an implement for tightening the seams of floor boards before nailing them in position. -->
*[[floor light]] <!-- {Floor light}, a frame with glass panes in a floor. -->
*[[flooring]]
*[[floor plan]] <!-- {Floor plan}. 
   (a) (Shipbuilding) A longitudinal section, showing a ship
       as divided at the water line.
   (b) (Arch.) A horizontal section, showing the thickness of
       the walls and partitions, arrangement of passages,
       apartments, and openings at the level of any floor of
       a house.
-->
*[[ground floor]], [[first floor]], [[second floor]], etc.
*[[thirteenth floor]]
*[[mezzanine floor]], [[mezzanine]]
*[[ocean floor]]
*[[shop floor]]
*[[take the floor]]
*[[top floor]]
*[[trading floor]]

[[Category:English concrete nouns]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:floor]]
[[io:floor]]
[[it:floor]]
[[hu:floor]]
[[pt:floor]]
[[fi:floor]]
[[ta:floor]]
[[zh:floor]]