{{See|-fold}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*(''[[RP]]''): /fəʊld/, /<tt>f@Uld</tt>/
*(''US''): fōld, /foʊld/, /<tt>foUld</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-fold.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[fealdan]], from Germanic ''*falþanan''.  Cognate with Dutch [[vouwen]], German [[falten]].

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|fold||}}

#{{transitive}} to [[bend]] (any thin [[material]], such as paper) over so that it comes in contact with itself.
#{{transitive}} to make the proper [[arrangement]] (in a thin material) by bending.
#:''If you '''fold''' the sheets, they'll fit more easily in the drawer.''
#(Informal) to [[fall over]].
#{{intransitive}} to give way on a point or in an argument.
#{{intransitive}} (''poker'') To [[withdraw]] from [[bet]]ting.
#{{transitive}} To [[stir]] gently, with a folding action.
#:'''''Fold''' the egg whites into the batter.''
#{{intransitive}} Of a company, to cease to trade.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''bend (thin material) over''): [[bend]], [[crease]]
*(''make the proper arrangement (in a thin material) by bending''):
*(''fall over''): [[fall over]]
*(''give way on a point or in an argument''): [[concede]], [[give in]], [[give way]], [[yield]]
*(''poker: withdraw from betting''): 
*(''stir gently with a folding action''):
*(''cease to trade''): 

=====Translations=====
'''bend (thin material) over'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[vou]]
*French: [[plier]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[piegare]]
*Portuguese: [[dobrar]]
*Russian: [[перегибать]]/[[перегнуть]] (p'er'egibát'/p'er'egnút'), [[складывать]]/[[сложить]] (skládyvat'/složít')
{{bottom}}

'''make the proper arrangement (in a thin material) by bending'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[vou]]
*French: [[plier]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[piegare]]
*Portuguese: [[dobrar]]
*Russian: [[складывать]]/[[сложить]] (skládyvat'/složít')
{{bottom}}


'''fall over'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''give way on a point or in an argument'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[vou]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[уступать]]/[[уступить]] (ustupát'/ustupít')
{{bottom}}

'''poker: withdraw from betting'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''stir gently with a folding action'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[vou]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''cease to trade'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[taittaa]] (1), [[viikata]] (2)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[falten]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[మడుచు]] (maDuchu)

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# the act of folding
# a bend or crease.
# any correct move in [[origami]].

=====Synonyms=====
*(''act of folding''): [[bending]], [[creasing]], [[folding]]
*(''bend or crease''): [[bend]], [[crease]]
*(''home, family''):
*(''correct move in origami''):

=====Translations=====
'''act of folding'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans [[vou]]
*Portuguese: [[dobradura]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[складывание]] (skládyvanije) {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''bend or crease'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[vou]]
*Portuguese: [[dobra]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[складка]] (skládka) {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''correct move in origami'''
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[dobra]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[taitos]] (1), [[poimu]] (1)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Falz]] {{m}} (1,3) [[:de:Falz|(de)]] 
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[మడత]] (maData) (1)


===Etymology 2===
Old English [[fald]], contraction of [[falæd]], from Germanic.  Cognate with Dutch [[vaalt]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}
#An enclosure for sheep or other [[domestic]] animals.
#(''figuratively'') home, family.<!--does this belong with "fold" with the other etymology?-->
#(''figuratively'') the Church  or a church.
#(obsolete) A boundry or limit.

=====Synonyms=====
*[[enclosure]]
*[[pen]]
*[[penfold]], [[pinfold]]

====Translations====
'''home, family'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

----

== Icelandic ==
=== Noun ===
'''fold''' {{f}}

# [[earth]]
# [[country]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Poker]]

[[fr:fold]]
[[io:fold]]
[[it:fold]]
[[hu:fold]]
[[zh:fold]]