==English==

{{webster}} 
===Etymology===
[[ablative|Ablative]] of [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] [[folium]], meaning [[leaf]]. See [[foil]]. 
  
===Noun===
'''folio''' ('''folios''') 
# A leaf of a [[book]] or [[manuscript]].  
# A [[sheet]] of [[paper]] once [[fold]]ed.    
# A book made of sheets of paper each folded once (four pages to the sheet); hence, a book of the largest kind.  
# ([[printing|Printing]]) The page number. The [[even]] folios are on the [[left-hand]] pages and the [[odd]] folios on the [[right-hand]]. 
# A page of a book; ([[bookkeeping|Bookkeeping]]) a page in an [[account]] book; sometimes, two opposite pages bearing the same [[serial number]]. 
# ([[law|Law]]) A leaf containing a certain number of words, hence, a certain number of words in a writing, as in England, in law proceedings 72, and in chancery, 90; in New York, 100 words. Folio post, a flat writing paper, usually 17 by 24 inches. 

<!-- 
Folio (Page: 578)
Fol"io (?), n.; pl. Folios (#). [Ablative of L. folium leaf. See 4th Foil.] 

1. A leaf of a book or manuscript. 

2. A sheet of paper once folded. 

3. A book made of sheets of paper each folded once (four pages to the sheet); hence, a book of the largest kind. See Note under Paper. 

4. (Print.) The page number. The even folios are on the left-hand pages and the odd folios on the right-hand. 

5. A page of a book; (Bookkeeping) a page in an account book; sometimes, two opposite pages bearing the same serial number. 

6. (Law) A leaf containing a certain number of words, hence, a certain number of words in a writing, as in England, in law proceedings 72, and in chancery, 90; in New York, 100 words. Folio post, a flat writing paper, usually 17 by 24 inches. 


-->