==English==

{{rank|duty|heavy|single|616|foot|beauty|attention|standing}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/fʊt/}}
*{{SAMPA|//}}
*{{AHD|/fo͝ot/}}
*{{audio|en-us-foot.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''fōt'' from Germanic *''fōtaz''

===Noun===
[[Category:English irregular plurals]]
{{en-noun|feet}}

#{{countable}} {{Anatomy}} The part of a human’s body below the [[ankle]]. Used to stand and walk.
#{{countable}} {{Zoology}} The equivalent part of an animal’s body.
#{{countable}} The [[bottom]] of anything; as, the foot of the stairs, the foot of the page.
#{{countable}} A short [[projection]] on the bottom of a piece of equipment to support it.
#{{countable}} A [[unit]] of [[measure]] equal to twelve [[inch]]es and one [[third]] of a [[yard]], equal to exactly 30.48 [[centimetre]]s.
#The basic measure of [[rhythm]] in a [[poem]].
#{{countable}} {{nautical}} The bottom edge of a sail.
#:''To make the [[mainsail]] fuller in shape, the [[outhaul]] is eased to reduce the tension on the '''foot''' of the sail.''
#''Printing''. the bottommost part of a [[type page]] or [[printed page]]

====Derived terms====
*[[itchy feet]]
*[[footing]]

====Translations====
'''part of human body'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[këmbë]] ''f''
*Basque: [[oin]]
*Bosnian: [[stopalo]] {{n}}, [[stopa]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[troad]] {{m}}, treid {{p}}
*Catalan: [[peu#Catalan|peu]] {{m}} [[:ca:peu|^]]
*Croatian: [[noga]] ''f'', [[stopalo]] ''n''
*Danish: [[fod]] {{c}}, [[fødder]] {{p}}
*Dutch: [[voet]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[piedo]]
*Estonian: [[jalg]]
*Finnish: [[jalka]], [[jalkaterä]]
*French: [[pied]] {{m}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[poat]] {{m}}
*Gamilaraay: [[thina]]
*German: [[Fuß]] {{m}}
*Greek:
**Ancient: [[πούς]] (poús) {{m}}
**Modern: [[πόδι]] (pódi) {{n}}
*Guaraní: [[py]]
*Hebrew: [[רגל]] (regel) {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[láb]]
*[[Ido]]: [[pedo]]
*Indonesian: [[kaki]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[pede]]
*Italian: [[piede]] ''m''
*Irish: [[cos#Irish|cos]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[piede]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[足]] (あし, ashí)
*Korean: [[발]] (bal)
*[[Kurdish]] (Kurmancî): [[pî]], [[pê]], [[ling]], [[nig]]
*[[Kurdish]] (Soranî): [[pa]]
*Latin: [[pes]] ''m''
*Latvian: [[pēda]]
*Lithuanian: [[pėdės]]
*[[Mbabaram]]: [[jina]]
*Old English: [[fot]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[پا]]}} ([[pa]])
*Polish: [[stopa]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[pé]] {{m}}
*Powhatan: [[mesit]]
*Romanian: [[picior]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[нога]] (nogá) {{f}}, [[ступня]] (stupnjá) {{f}}
*Sardinian (Campidanese): [[pei]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[stopalo]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[pie]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[fot]] {{c}}
*Tagalog: [[paa]]
*Tamazight: [[ⴰⴹⴰⵔ]] (aḍar) {{m}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[పాదము]] (paadamu)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[lek]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[py]]
*Turkish: [[ayak]]
*Uzbek: [[oyoq]]
{{bottom}}

'''part of animal’s body'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[pav]] {{m}}, pavioù / pivier {{p}}
*Danish: [[fod]] {{c}}, [[fødder]] {{p}}
*Dutch: [[poot]] {{m}}, [[pootje]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[käpälä]], [[jalka]], [[tassu]], [[kavio]]
*French: [[patte]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[πόδι]] (pódi) {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[cos#Irish|cos]]
*Italian: [[zampa]] {{f}}
*Persian: [[پا]] ([[pa]]) 
*Portuguese: [[pata]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[нога]] (nogá) {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''bottom of anything'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[fod]] {{c}}, [[fødder]] {{p}}
*Finnish: [[juuri]], [[tyvi]], [[kanta]], [[alaosa]]
{{mid}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[పాదము]] (paadamu) / [[అడుగు]] (aDugu) (..depending on the context)
{{bottom}}

'''projection on equipment'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[fod]] {{c}}, [[fødder]] {{p}}
*Dutch: [[poot]] {{m}}, [[pootje]] {{n}} (2)
*French: [[pied]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''unit of measure'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[fod]] {{c}}, [[fod]] {{p}}
*Dutch: [[voet]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[jalka]]
*French: [[pied]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[πόντο]]? (póndo)?
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[piede]] {{m}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[پا]]}} ([[pa]]) 
*Russian: [[фут]] (fut) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[čevelj]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[fot]] {{c}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[అడుగు]] (aDugu)
{{bottom}}

'''measure of rhythm'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[versefod]]/[[versfod]] {{c}}, [[versefødder]]/[[versfødder]] {{p}}
*Finnish: [[poljento]], [[runojalka]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[fot]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

The translations below might be out of synch with the definitions above. Would native speakers please insert them into the correct tables above, deleting the numbers.
*[[Breton]]: [[treid]] / [[troadoù]] {{p}} (2), [[troatad]] {{m}}, troatadoù {{p}} (4)
*Polish: [[stopa]] {{f}} (4), [[nóżka]] {{f}} (2)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[lek]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[py]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#{{transitive}} To [[kick]] (usually a ball).
#{{transitive}} To [[pay]] (a bill).

====Etymology====
From the noun.

====Translations====
'''kick'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[sparke]]
*Dutch: [[stampen]]
*Finnish: [[potkaista]], [[kenkäistä]]
*French: [[donner un coup de pied]] à
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[sparka]], [[kicka]]
{{bottom}}

'''pay'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[betale]]
*Dutch: [[betalen]], [[voldoen]]
*Finnish: [[maksaa]]
*French: [[payer]]
*German: [[bezahlen]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[pagar]]
*Italian: [[pagare]]
*Portuguese: [[pagar]]
*Swedish: [[betala]]
{{bottom}}

The translations below might be out of synch with the definitions above. Would native speakers please insert them into the correct tables above.

*[[Breton]]: [[paeañ]]
*[[Guarani]]: [[epyme'ẽ]] (h-)
*Polish: [[bulić]] ''very informal; more neutral is [[płacić]] (to [[pay]])''
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[gipim]] [[pe]] [[long]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[epyme'eng]] (s-)


----

==French==

===Noun===
'''foot''' ''m''

#(''colloquial'') [[football]] (''soccer'')

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English:Units of Measure]]

[[zh-min-nan:foot]]
[[de:foot]]
[[et:foot]]
[[el:foot]]
[[es:foot]]
[[fa:foot]]
[[fr:foot]]
[[io:foot]]
[[it:foot]]
[[ku:foot]]
[[hu:foot]]
[[ja:foot]]
[[pl:foot]]
[[pt:foot]]
[[ru:foot]]
[[simple:foot]]
[[sr:foot]]
[[fi:foot]]
[[sv:foot]]
[[ta:foot]]
[[zh:foot]]