'''The Force''' is a mystical power which is the object of the [[Jedi]] and [[Sith]] [[religion]]s.

Woven into and intertwined with everything - from the smallest [[molecule]] to the largest [[star]] - is the Force. The Force is an essential part of nature - like energy or matter. It is a field of energy that spans the universe. It surrounds and penetrates all things. This energy field is made up of chlorian "[[particle]]s" - subatomic, high energy, fluctuations in the quantum state of the [[space-time continuum]]. Chlorian particles exist throughout the universe as "background" [[radiation]]. Even in the deepest void of space, one can find chlorian particles. Due to the unique nature of chlorian particles, they affect both matter and energy. Chlorian particles are not true particles, but do possess mass. Chlorians also exhibit the wave motion properties of [[electromagnetic]] radiation. Hence, they travel through most matter at light speed, while still interacting with matter on an [[atom]]ic level.

Every [[sentient]] being, with a few exceptions, have a symbiotic relationship with microscopic creatures called midichlorians. Since these midichlorians exist in a state of interspatial flux, outside of normal space-time, they cannot be detected by most conventional technologies. We provide them with a place to live and a way to nurture themselves, and they "let us in" on the Force. Midichlorians generate a specific and unique energy. In a similar fashion to the way mass distorts the space-time continuum to bend the fabric of reality and produce [[gravity]], the energy generated by midichlorians distorts the universal chlorian field. The presence of the midichlorian energy causes an increase in density in the chlorian field i.e. the Force itself.

Some sentient beings are able to exert a certain amount of control over chlorian particles. The process occurs during the interaction between midichlorian energy and chlorian particles. In such interactions, the midichlorian energy can alter the wavelength and frequency of chlorian wave properties. Midichlorian energy can also alter the density, quantum oscillation, phase and other properties of chlorian particles. By influencing chlorian particles, they can be directed, used to manipulate energy, matter, spatial anomalies and other phenomena. Now, the more midichlorians one has, the stronger their connection to the Force. However, it is rare for anyone to be able to manipulate the Force with less than 7,000 midichlorians per cell.

The Force, itself, is defined in many different ways. A two ways are the Living Force and the Unifying Force. The Living Force represents all living things while the Unifying Force is everything that lives in the past and future. The Unifying Force is the collective pool of all the energy in the universe. This means it also includes non-living things as even non-living things have matter and matter and energy are interchangable. The Living Force is the collective pool of the energy of living things. It encompasses living things and therefore also sentience.

The light and dark sides of the Force relates to the nature of most sentient beings and of all creatures who have free will. It represents the dark and light sides to us as living creatures, and our ability to control those sides of "[[good]]" and "[[evil]]". The light represents the good in all, and the dark represents the evil.

Manifestations of Force-skills include [[telepathy]], [[psychokinesis]], enhanced physical and metaphysical perception as well as the abilities to bend the will of the weakminded and improve one's own physical ability.  The Force can also be used to allow an adept's body to be guided by the Force itself. Through this ability one can cease to react to his or her surroundings and predict the future, such as the next blow in a duel.

In addition to the above powers, Force-users are also capable of attacks through The Force by producing "force-lightning" from their hands. Use of this ability murderously is of Dark Side use. As a contrast, adherence to the Light Side allows its user to transcend death and become a "force ghost", allowing the deceased to exist as an energy being who can interact with other Force sensitive individuals.