==English==

{{rank|door|round|kind|278|form|hundred|believe|white}}
===Etymology===
[[Category:Greek derivations]]
French ''[[forme]]'' &gt; Latin ''[[forma]]'' &gt; Ancient Greek '''[[μόρφα]]''' (''morfa'')

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-form.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)m|-ɔː(r)m]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# The [[shape]] or visible structure of a thing or person.
# A thing that gives shape to other things as in a [[mold]].
# An order of doing things, as in religious [[ritual]].
# A blank document or [[template]] to be filled in by the user.
# {{grammar}} A grouping of words which maintain grammatical [[context]] in different usages.
# Characteristics not involving atomic components.
# (UK) A criminal record.
#:Note, this would usually be stated as "Jim has form", rather than "Jim has a form".
====Synonyms====
*[[figure]], used when discussing people, not animals
*[[shape]], used on animals and on persons

Hi, you have very good site! Thank you!

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

[[Transitive]]:
# To [[shape]].
# To construct or [[frame]].
#* The ideas and [[opinion]]s we '''form''' in early life remain with us.
# To [[contract]] or create.
#* We '''formed''' many friendships at band camp.
# To instruct, almost indoctrinate
#* To form a pupil

[[Intransitive]]:
# To take or [[assume]] a [[shape]].

====Translations====

'''to shape'''
{{top}}
<!-- Languages from A to I -->
*Dutch: [[vormen]], [[vormgeven]]
*Finnish: [[muotoilla]]
{{mid}}
<!-- Languages from J to Z -->
*Slovene: [[oblikovati]]
*Swedish: [[forma]]
{{bottom}}

'''to construct'''
{{top}}
<!-- Languages from A to I -->
*Dutch: [[vormen]], [[aannemen]]
*Finnish: [[muodostaa]]
{{mid}}
<!-- Languages from J to Z -->
{{bottom}}

'''to contract or create'''
{{top}}
<!-- Languages from A to I -->
*Dutch: [[vormen]], [[maken]]
*Finnish: [[muodostaa]], [[luoda]]
{{mid}}
<!-- Languages from J to Z -->
*Swedish: [[bilda]], [[ta form]]
{{bottom}}

'''to teach, almost indoctrinate'''
{{top}}
<!-- Languages from A to I -->
*Dutch: [[vormen]], [[opvoeden]]
{{mid}}
<!-- Languages from J to Z -->
*Swedish: [[forma]], [[dana]]
{{bottom}}

'''to take a shape'''
{{top}}
<!-- Languages from A to I -->
*Dutch: zich [[vormen]], [[vorm krijgen]]
*Finnish: [[muodostua]], [[muotoutua]]
{{mid}}
<!-- Languages from J to Z -->
*Swedish: [[bilda]], [[ta form]]
*Telugu: [[అవతరించు]] (avatarimchu)
{{bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[from]]

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
{{sv-noun-reg-er|form}}
#[[shape]]
[[Category:Swedish nouns]]
[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[el:form]]
[[fr:form]]
[[io:form]]
[[it:form]]
[[ku:form]]
[[hu:form]]
[[pl:form]]
[[fi:form]]
[[ta:form]]
[[vi:form]]
[[zh:form]]