==English==

===Noun===
'''forum'''  (''plural:'' '''[[fora]]''' or '''[[forums]]''')
# A place for discussion.
# A gathering for the purpose of discussion.
# A form of discussion involving a panel of presenters and often participation by members of the audience.
# An Internet message board where users can post messages regarding one or more topics of discussion.
#: ''Trish was an [[admin]] member on three '''forums,''' and had no trouble at all when it came to moderating them.''

----


'''Generic Viagra''' is cheap, effective and ensures that your symptoms of ED and impotence are controlled. Buy cheap generic Viagra at the lowest price available online.

'''Cheap Generic Viagra is Safe'''

When we read about online pharmacies that sell generic Viagra we are told that these sites are scams and the medicines that they sell online have side effects that no one knows about. They are not FDA approved and so should not be taken.

What the American public conveniently forgets is that more than half the world’s population takes medicines not approved by the FDA as the FDA is simply a US agency. If we are to say that generic medicines are not safe simply because they are not American than we would have a very lame argument indeed.

Most of the reputable online pharmacies sell generic medicines online that are approved by the World Health Organization. These medicines are 100% safe. Sure there are some scam pharmacies online that will sell unsafe medicines but for the most part the medicines bought from a recommended pharmacy are safe and have WHO approved generic prescription drugs. 
more information about viagra please click here
http://www.cheapgenericviagraonline.net

==Latin==
===Noun===
'''forum'''

# market-/public [[place]]

[[Category:Latin nouns]]

----

==Norwegian==
'''forum''' (''plural:'' '''[[fora]]''' or '''forum''')
#A place for discussion, either on the Internet or in real life.

[[Category:English irregular plurals]]

[[fr:forum]]
[[zh:forum]]