==English==

===Pronunciation===
*foul, /faʊl/, /<tt>faUl</tt>/
*:'''Homophones''': [[fowl]]
*:[[Rhymes:English:-aʊl|Rhymes: -aʊl]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[fūl]]''

====Adjective====
{{en-adj-both}}

# Covered with, or containing, extraneous matter which is injurious, noxious, offensive, or obstructive; filthy; dirty; not clean; polluted; nasty; defiled; as, a foul cloth; foul hands; a foul chimney; foul air; a ship's bottom is foul when overgrown with barnacles; a gun becomes foul from repeated firing; a well is foul with polluted water.
#: ''Cap'n, she's all '''fouled''' up.''
# Scurrilous; obscene or profane; abusive; as, foul words; foul language.
#: ''The rascal spewed forth a series of '''foul''' pronouncements.''
# Hateful; detestable; shameful; odious; wretched.
#: ''He has a '''foul''' set of friends.''
# Loathsome; disgusting; as, a foul disease.
#: ''This '''foul''' food is making me wretch.''
# Ugly; homely; poor.
# Not favorable; unpropitious; not fair or advantageous; as, a foul wind; a foul road; cloudy or rainy; stormy; not fair; -- said of the weather, sky, etc.
#: ''Some '''foul''' weather is brewing.''
# Not conformed to the established rules and customs of a game, conflict, test, etc.; unfair; dishonest; dishonorable; cheating; as, foul play.
#:'' '''Foul''' play is not suspected.''
# Having freedom of motion interfered with by collision or entanglement; entangled; -- opposed to clear; as, a rope or cable may get foul while paying it out.
#: ''We've got a '''foul''' anchor.''
# {{baseball}} Outside of the base lines.
#: ''Jones hit '''foul''' ball after foul ball.''

====Derived terms====
*[[afoul]]
*[[befoul]]

===Etymology 2===
Old English ''[[fūlian]]''

====Transitive verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To make dirty.
#: ''He's '''fouled''' her diapers.''
# To besmirch.
#: ''He's '''fouled''' his reputation.''
# To clog or obstruct.
#: ''The hair has '''fouled''' the drain.''
# To entangle.
#: ''The kelp has '''fouled''' the prop.''
# {{basketball}} To make contact with an opposing player in order to gain advantage.
#: ''Smith '''fouled''' him hard.''
# {{baseball}} To hit outside of the baselines.
#: ''Jones '''fouled''' the ball off the facing of the upper deck.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
* German [5] [[foulen]] [[:de:foulen|(de)]]
{{bottom}}

====Intransitive verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To become clogged.
#: ''The drain '''fouled'''.
# To become entangled.
#: ''The prop '''fouled''' on the kelp.''
# {{basketball}} To commit a foul.
#: ''Smith '''fouled''' within the first minute of the quarter.''
# {{baseball}} To hit a ball outside of the baselines.
#: ''Jones '''fouled''' for strike one.''

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# {{basketball}} The act of making contact with an opposing player in order to gain advantage.
# {{baseball}} A [[foul ball]], a ball which has been hit outside of the base lines.
#:''Jones hit a '''foul''' up over the screen.''

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
* German [[Foul]] ''n'' [[:de:Foul|(de)]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[es:foul]]
[[fa:foul]]
[[fr:foul]]
[[io:foul]]
[[it:foul]]
[[zh:foul]]