==English==

===Etymology===
Old English [[framian]].

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/freɪm/}}
*{{audio|en-us-frame.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪm|-eɪm]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|fram|ing}}

#{{transitive}} To put together (the structural elements of a building or other constructed object).
#: ''Once we finish '''framing''' the house, we'll start on the walls.''
#{{transitive}} To construct in words.
#: ''Could you '''frame''' the question more neutrally?''
#{{transitive}} To position visually within a fixed boundary.
#: ''The director '''frames''' the fishing scene very well.''
#{{transitive}} To cause (a presumably innocent person) to appear guilty.
#: ''The gun had obviously been placed in her car in an effort to '''frame''' her.''
#{{transitive}} To establish a context for understanding or interpretation.
#: ''The opposition has managed to '''frame''' the argument to make it very hard for us to win.''
#{{transitive}} To add a decorative border to (a painting or photograph).

====Translations====
;put together the structural elements of a building or other constructed object
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;construct in words
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[muotoilla]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[utforma]]
{{bottom}}

;position visually within a fixed boundary
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[komponera]]
{{bottom}}

;cause (a presumably innocent person) to appear guilty
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[lavastaa]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[подставить]] (podstàvit') ''perfective''
*Swedish: [[sätta dit]]
{{bottom}}

;establish a context for
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[utforma]]
{{bottom}}

;add a decorative border to
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kehystää]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[rama]], [[rama in]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}} 

# The structural elements of a [[building]] or other constructed object.
#: ''Now that the '''frame''' is complete, we can start on the walls.''
# The structure of a person's [[body]].
#: ''His starved flesh hung loosely on his once imposing '''frame'''.''
# A rigid, generally rectangular [[mounting]] for paper, canvas or other flexible material.
#: ''The painting was housed in a beautifully carved '''frame'''.''
# A piece of photographic [[film]] containing an image.
#: ''A film projector shows many '''frames''' in a single second.''
# A [[context]] for understanding or [[interpretation]].
#: ''In this '''frame''', it's easy to ask the question that the investigators missed.''
# {{snooker}} A complete game of snooker, from [[break-off]] until all the balls (or as many as necessary to win) have been [[potted]] 
# ''(computing)'' An independent [[chunk]] of [[data]] sent over the wire(s) of a [[network]].
# ''(bowling)'' A set of balls whose results are added together for scoring purposes. Usually two balls, but only one ball in the case of a [[strike]], and three balls in the case of a strike or a [[spare]] in the last frame of a game.
#([[stamp]]s) the outer [[decorated]] [[portion]] of a stamp's image, often repeated on several issues although the inner picture may change.
====Translations====
;structural elements of a building or other constructed object
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[runko]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[stomme]], [[bjälklag]]
{{bottom}}

;structure of a person's body
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[keho]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[kroppsbyggnad]]
{{bottom}}

;rigid, generally rectangular mounting
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kehys]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ram]]
{{bottom}}

;piece of photographic film containing an image
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kuva]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[bildruta]]
{{bottom}}

;complete game of snooker
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;chunk of data
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[ram#Swedish|ram]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Rahmen]], Gestalt, Figur, Bild auf einem Stück Film, Verfassung, Stimmung
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[keret]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[rama]] {{f}} (''mounting''), [[klatka]] {{f}}, [[ramka]] {{f}} (''photography'')
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
{{top}}
*[[frame house]]
*[[frame in]]
*[[frame of mind]]
*[[frame of reference]]
*[[frame up]]
{{mid}}
*[[framework]]
*[[framing hammer]]
*[[framing square]]
*[[inertial frame of reference|inertial frame]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[bs:frame]]
[[fa:frame]]
[[fr:frame]]
[[io:frame]]
[[it:frame]]
[[hu:frame]]
[[nl:frame]]
[[fi:frame]]
[[zh:frame]]