==Quotes==

[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&safe=off&q=pandeism+-wiki%2C+-wikipedia Results 1 - 10 of about 2,900 for pandeism, -wiki, -wikipedia.] 

:''I think '''Pandeism''' was system; &mdash; and that when I say the country or kingdom of Pandæa, I express myself in a manner similar to what I should do, if I said the Popish kingdom or the kingdoms of Popery; or again, the Greeks have many idle ceremonies in their church, meaning the Greeks of all nations: or, the countries of the Pope are superstitions, &c. At the same time, I beg to be understood as not denying that there was such a kingdom as that of Pandae, the daughter of Cristna, any more than I would deny that there was a kingdom of France ruled by the eldest son of the church, or the eldest son of the Pope.''
:''We have seen that though Cristna was said to have left many sons, he left his immense empire, which extended from the sources of the Indus to Cape Comorin, (for we find a Regio Pandionis near this point,) to his daughter Pandæa; but, from finding the icon of Buddha so constantly shaded with the nine Cobras, &c., I am induced to think that this Pandeism was a doctrine, which had been received both by Buddhists and Brahmins.''

::[[w:Godfrey Higgins|Godfrey Higgins]], ''[[w:Anacalypsis|Anacalypsis: An Attempt to Draw Aside the Veil of the Saitic Isis: Or an Inquiry into the Origin of Languages, Nations and Religions]]'' (1833), p.439. (2002 ed.) - Vol. I ISBN: 0766126439; Vol. II ISBN: 0766126447; (1972 ed.) - ASIN: B0006Y9FEM 
::(Note: Substantially reproduced in [[w:John Ballou Newbrough|John Ballou Newbrough]], ''[[w:Oahspe Bible|Oahspe Bible]]'' (1882, republished 1998), p. 874 ISBN: (1909 ed.) ASIN: B00088L2AQ; (1998 ed.) ISBN: 0966506502) 

----

:'The Unknowable is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble,' is what would occur to no man to think or say." But one may fairly ask whether man would be any more likely, in the searching emergencies which beset all lives more or less, to invoke the "Power not-ourselves which makes for righteousness." One wonders if even Arnold himself meant no more than this when, an alien in a strange land, his heart went out from distant America to the sanctities of his serene home amongst the Surrey hills, and he wrote to his daughter, "God bless you, my own precious Nell!"

:But whatever the deity which satisfied Arnold's personal experience may have been, the religion which he gives us in Literature and Dogma and God and the Bible is neither Deism nor bare Pan-Deism, but a diluted Positivism. As an ethical system it is in theory admirable, but its positive value is in the highest degree questionable. Pascal's judgment upon the God who emerged from the philosophical investigations of Rene Descartes was that He was a God who was unnecessary. And one may with even greater truth say that the man who is able to receive and live by the religion which Arnold offers him is no longer in need of its help and stimulus. To be able to appreciate an ethical idealism a man must himself be already an ethical idealist.

::[[w:William Harbutt Dawson|William Harbutt Dawson]], ''Matthew Arnold and His Relation to the Thought of Our Time'' (1904, republished 1977), p. 256 (1977 ed.) ISBN: 0849206480; (1904 ed.) ASIN: B0006ADKGA

----

:''If the Bible is only human lore, and not divine truth, then we have no real answer to those who say, "Let's pick the best out of all religions and blend it all into Pan-Deism - one world religion with one god made out of many"''.

::[[w:J. Sidlow Baxter|J. Sidlow Baxter]], ''The Most Critical Issue'' (1991)[http://www.pwmi.org/tcf002.htm]

----

:''Heracleitus’ last and most remarkable insight about the cosmos was that fire not only holds in itself, but is the logos, that is, the plan for everything, the principle of all the complex organization that exists in the universe. And since this plan contains instructions for execution that lead to order (which we now call algorithms and are mathematical), the logos, which is boundlessly resourceful, is supremely intelligent and powerful as well, and consequently deserves to be considered the supreme deity. The logos is therefore divine, fire is divine, matter is divine. And since there is nothing in the universe that is not ultimately becoming, fire, and logos, Heracleitus’ view of the cosmos was not only monistic and pantheistic—like that of all of his Pre-Socratic contemporaneous, predecessors or immediate successors—but the purest form of immanentistic pantheism that has ever been conceived, and at the same time the one vision of the universe that is most congruous with what science has taught us recently about the universe. For others, the Big Bang fire may have been a sufficient beginning and end of the divine, the logos that contained all that was necessary to the plan of the universe—that would suffice for pandeism, for the pandeist god is the salmon god – it spawns and it dies.''

::R.G. Mendoza, ''History of Ideas: Pantheism'', (1996)

----

:What appeared here, at the center ot the Pythagorean tradition in philosophy, is another view of ''psyche'' that seems to owe little or nothing to the pan-vitalism or pan-deism (see ''theion'') that is the legacy of the Milesians.

::[[w:F.E. Peters|Francis E. Peters]], ''Greek Philosophical Terms: A Historical Lexicon'' (NYU Press 1967), p. 169 . ISBN: 0814765521 

----

* All the actions of created intelligences are not merely the actions of God. He has created a universe of beings which are said to act freely and responsibly as the proximate causes of their own moral actions. When individuals do evil things it is not God the Creator and Preserver acting. If God was the proximate cause of every act it would make all events to be "God in motion". That is nothing less than pantheism, or more exactly, pandeism. The Creator is distinct from his creation. The reality of secondary causes is what separates Christian theism from pandeism.
** Bob Burridge, ''Theology Proper - Lesson 4: The Decrees of God'' (1997)[http://www.girs.com/library/theology/syllabus/theo4.html]''

----

*Why does calling God the author of sin demand a pandeistic understanding of the universe effectively removing the reality of sin and moral law. 
** Bob Burridge, ''Theology Proper - Lesson 4: The Decrees of God'' (1997)[http://www.girs.com/library/theology/syllabus/theo4.html]''

----

:The Korean War has been called the forgotten war, the men who fought there the forgotten warriors.. But Jim Garvin of Albuquerque -- a Marine Corps veteran of that gritty, bitter conflict who went on to become, among many other things, a key figure in attracting blue-chip industries to the city in the '60s and '70s -- just won't let it go. ... [He] describes his current spiritual position as "'pandeism' or 'pan-en-deism,' something very close to the Native American concept of the all- pervading Great Spirit" 
::"Marine's Balled Honors Soldiers, Trappist Monks" ''Albuquerque Journal'' (Saturday, November 11, 1995) B-10

----

:''Spinoza's "Ethics" argues that God is nature (Dues sive Natura) and that all natural law emanates from God/Nature. Therefore, when one acts according to these principles, or laws, one becomes resonate with God/Nature. This resonance leads to beneficent outcomes which could be interpreted as "Divine Providence" even though no separate sentient and cognitive being bestowed blessings in an "unnatural" (i.e., "supernatural") way.''

:''The argument then progresses to the conclusion that the teachings and miracles of the prophets and Jesus were in fact this very resonance achieved by those individuals and manifested by them to the world in accordance with their own individual capacities to understand. The labeling of Spinoza's philosophy as "pantheism" by the Church was meant more as an invective and indictment than a true analysis of his writings. It was really a variant of Deism -- a "pandeism," if I may.''

:''Theism, however, posits something very different. Theism believes that nature was not God, but created BY God. That God is a completely independent sentient and cognitive Being, and that God interacts with his "children" on a personal level (e.g., The Bible).''

::Roncelin de Fos, ''Christian Origins of the U.S.'' (2004)

----

:''Pandeism: The belief that God precedes the universe and is the universe's creator, that the universe is currently the entirety of God, and that the universe will one day coalesce back into a single being, God. Pandeists believe all consciousness, in all life, to be fragments of God's awareness.''

::[http://www.christianforums.com/t2738327-wiki-pandeism.html Christian Forums] (date unknown)

----

:''Pandeist: One who subscribes to the philosophy of pandeism.''

::[http://www.christianforums.com/t2738360-wiki-pandeist.html Christian Forums] (date unknown)

----

:Pandeism combines the major elements of deism and pantheism, and holds that a transcendent God existed before the universe was created, but that this God became the universe in the course of creating it, and thereby ceased to be an active participant in its operations.

::Theology: Summary, History & List of World Religions & Religious Beliefs. On Morality, Free Will & God (c. 2006)[http://www.spaceandmotion.com/theology-morality-god-world-religions.htm]

----

:Three key concepts guide us with all certainty when defining the terms of Deism, Pandeism, Panendeism, Theism, Pantheism, and Panentheism (Omnientheism). These concepts are transcendence, immanence, and holism of God. 
...
:The terms Theism, Pantheism, and Panentheism have their root in Greek, which is a Biblical language, and therefore it is correct. In a discretionary way we assume that these terms present the idea of a personal, individual God. However, the terms Deism, Pandeism, and Panendeism have their root in Latin, which is not a Biblical language, and therefore it is not correct. These terms present the idea of God like synonymous of Energy or Cosmic Force, because God is not personal here, He is not individual. 
...
:Assuming these definitions of transcendence, immanence, and holism, we can say that Energy or Cosmic Force in Deism is transcendent, but is neither immanent nor holistic. Thus we see that Energy or Cosmic Force in Pandeism is immanent and holistic, but it is not transcendent. However, Energy or Cosmic Force in Panendeism is immanent, transcendent, and holistic. 

::Orlando Alcántara Fernández (Cristorly), ''Omnientheism: GOD According to Biblical Universalist Unitarianism'' (2005)

----

:Let us consider the three eras of animism to polytheism and then to near-monotheism as a trend. Are we to then conclude that the trend leads next to the recognition of the "One God" —or that there is no such thing as "a god"? Science needs no god at all. The very function of science is to find natural ("non-spirit") causation. However, it seems unlikely mankind could now accept, instead, a world-view and way of thinking that totally skipped true monotheism or mono-deism. Would it be skipped? Judaism has always been a monotheism. Judaism was never a mainstream belief system, however, because of its tribal-barbaric racist and expansionist features. Both the Islamic and Christian faiths absorbed its god, but both then also adopted demonology. Christianity even regressed further by adopting other gods whom it deviously mislabeled "the fallen angel," the "Mother of God,"  the "Son of God," and "the Holy Spirit" — most of whom were, supposedly, only incarnations or parts of "the One God."
:Belief in a single deity, however, is consistent with science and natural cause as long as that belief is in a First Cause that has not and does not, subsequently, alter or change natural order. Reader and Author alike have their own personal preferences, but what is important to the next world-view and way of thinking is accommodating to the still-widespread longing to believe in a "supreme being" while at the same time, not adopting anything which can disturb natural order and natural cause. The next belief system would need to be like an umbrella that reached out to cover atheism, deism, agnosticism, and pantheism (that is, pan-deism). Only in this way, now, can we bring humanity into the real age of scientific discovery, build a new civilization, and ultimately expand the human race far out into the universe beyond this cramped small planet in which we are now so confined. 
::Charles Brough, ''Untwisting the Social Sciences'' (2006), p. 142

----

:FREE THINKERS: all people whose beliefs regarding "spirits" are compatible with modern science. Deism, pandeism, agnosticism and atheism are compatible, while theism is not.
::Charles Brough, ''Untwisting the Social Sciences'' (2006), p. 220.

''Compare'':
:FREE THINKERS: all people whose beliefs regarding "spirits" are compatible with modern science. Atheism, agnosticism, even Deism and pandeism, are compatible with science. Theism is not.
::The Social Science Undeground, ''GLOSSARY: Terms defined for a real science of society'' (March 2006) [http://humanpurpose.simplenet.com/glossary.html]

----

:''Su visión es pandeísta y debió ser panteísta. Para lograr panteizar el cuadro hace falta Cristo como insignia, sendero y faro. El pandeísmo es impersonal como el presente cuadro en que hombre, naturaleza y palabra se integran, mientras que el panteísmo es personal, vivencia crística de todos los días.'' 
::(translated):
:''His vision is pandeist, and it had to be pantheist. In order to get a pantheist painting, it is necessary to have Christ as pennant, footpath, and lighthouse. Pandeism is impersonal like in the present canvas, in which man, nature and word integrate themselves; whereas pantheism is a personal Christ-like experience of every day.''
::''Meta-Pintores Uno'' (August 2003)[http://www.predicado.com/articulo.php?id=72357]

----

:Jubal... is a devout and fierce individualist in a world filled with cults and bureaucracies, and by novel’s end it is he, not Jill nor Mike, that is still a stranger, still tilting against the windmills. He honestly believes in his own free will, which Mike, Jill, and the Fosterites misinterpret as a pandeistic urge, ‘Thou art God!’ Mike, by contrast, readily abandons his Martian beliefs for human ones, even as he claims to merely find a congress between them. 
::[[w:Dan Schneider|Dan Schneider]], ''Review of Stranger In A Strange Land (The Uncut Version), by Robert A. Heinlein'' (7/29/05)[http://www.hackwriters.com/strangerH.htm]

----

:''The WHO and MSF and other organizations do great work, but they often lack the long-term committment and grass-roots organization needed to build a sustainable program. Missionaries and hospitals like Holy Family also have made contributions and they recognize the need for providing economics-based aid (i.e. finding employment), but they lack the vigour and drive of the St. Stephens community. The government also does very little, but generally co- operates with St. Stephens in terms of getting OKs, partly because it is older than the Indian government itself and partly because it has a stellar reputation for secularism. Indeed, most of the staff is either Hindu or Moslem, but they are full of these pan-deist ideas, and even Zahir deliberately used the Christian word "God" rather than "Allah" when talking with me.''
::Paul La Porte, October 2003 [http://laporte.uchicago.edu/INDIA/Delhi/Dispensary/dispensaryII.htm]

----

:Today we are witnessing movements of all kinds toward union. In the commercial world we are seeing great mergers. In the economic world we are seeing whole nations uniting. In the labor world, the unions are waxing bigger and becoming more powerful. In the financial world there is evident an increasing monopoly. In the religious world there are great movements toward union and not only in the professedly Christian world. The church of Rome uses the term “pandeism”, to describe her current program of bringing under her wing the non-Christian religions of the world. In this, Rome will finally succeed, because the prediction says, “all the world wondered after the beast”.  (Revelation 13:3)
::Conrad Baker, ''The Three Powers Of Armageddon: An Exposition of Revelation 16:13-16'', August 12, 2005 [http://www.MaranathaMedia.com.au]

----

:''Pandeism: Very similar to modal and developmental deism, except that it is based on the notion that God was no longer existing once this transference took place. It could be combined with all the other deisms mentioned above (for its own separate list--I'm afraid).''
:"Harvey" [http://debatingchristianity.com/forum/pda/thread.php?topic_id=1431]

----

:[Y]ou seem to be drawing a strict distinction between God and the universe. Not all Deists do this, so for these "PanDeists" the point becomes moot.
::"Wandered_Off" [http://www.beliefnet.com/boards/message_list.asp?boardID=36669&discussionID=512713]

----

:[M]any panentheists are actually panendeists, many process theists are actually process deists, many scientific pantheists are actually pandeists, etc.
::"Native Son", Nov 22, 2004 [http://dynamicdeism.org/forum/phpBB2/viewtopic.php?t=170&]

----


=Defs=

----

==English==
===Etymology===
<nowiki>{{wikipedia}}</nowiki>
Blend of [[pantheism]] and [[deism]]; from <nowiki>{{Gr.}}</nowiki> ''[[pan-]]'', "all" and ''[[deus]]'', "god".
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pæn'di'ĭz'əm}}
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-deism''', '''pan deism'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and D are capitalized: '''Pandeism''', '''PanDeism'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-deism''', '''Pan-Deism''', '''Pan Deism''', '''Pan deism'''
===Noun===
'''pandeism''' (''plural'': uncountable)
# belief in a God who is both [[pantheistic]] and [[deistic]], e.g. a God who designed the universe and then created it by ''becoming'' the universe, thus ceasing to act consciously with respect to the universe
#:''The reality of secondary causes is what separates Christian theism from '''pandeism'''.'' Bob Burridge, ''Theology Proper - Lesson 4: The Decrees of God'' (1997)[http://www.girs.com/library/theology/syllabus/theo4.html]''
#:''He describes his current spiritual position as "''' 'pandeism' ''' or 'pan-en-deism,' something very close to the Native American concept of the all- pervading Great Spirit"''. "Marine's Balled Honors Soldiers, Trappist Monks" ''Albuquerque Journal'' (Saturday, November 11, 1995) B-10
#(''rare''): worship that admits or tolerates favorable aspects of all religions
#:''If the Bible is only human lore, and not divine truth, then we have no real answer to those who say, 'Let's pick the best out of all religions and blend it all into '''Pan-Deism''' - one world religion with one god made out of many' ''. [[w:J. Sidlow Baxter|J. Sidlow Baxter]], ''The Most Critical Issue'' (1991)[http://www.pwmi.org/tcf002.htm]
#(''archaic''): a secret religious sect hypothosized to exist in a range extending from India to Europe and Northern Africa
#:''I am induced to think that this '''Pandeism''' was a doctrine, which had been received both by Buddhists and Brahmins.'' [[w:Godfrey Higgins|Godfrey Higgins]], ''[[w:Anacalypsis|Anacalypsis: An Attempt to Draw Aside the Veil of the Saitic Isis: Or an Inquiry into the Origin of Languages, Nations and Religions]]'' (1833), p.439.
====Translations====
'''combining elements of pantheism and deism'''
{{top}}
*[[Spanish]]: pandeísmo <nowiki>{{m}}</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pæn'di'ĭst}}
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-deist''', '''pan deist'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and D are capitalized: '''Pandeist''', '''PanDeist'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-deist''', '''Pan-Deist''', '''Pan Deist''', '''Pan deist'''
===Noun===
'''pandeist''' (''plural'': '''[[pandeists]]''')
#one who believes in [[pandeism]], a blend of pantheism and deism
#(''rare''): one who believes in the truth of all religions

===Adjective===
{{en-ad|pandeist}}
# of or relating to [[pandeism]]
#:''Indeed, most of the staff is either Hindu or Moslem, but they are full of these '''pan-deist''' ideas, and even Zahir deliberately used the Christian word "God" rather than "Allah" when talking with me.'' Paul La Porte, October 2003 [http://laporte.uchicago.edu/INDIA/Delhi/Dispensary/dispensaryII.htm]

====Translations====
'''of or relating to pandeism'''
{{top}}
*[[Spanish]]: pandeísta <nowiki>{{f}}</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

===See also===
*[[pandeistic]]

----

==English==
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pæn'di'ĭsts}}
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-deists''', '''pan deists'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and D are capitalized: '''Pandeists''', '''PanDeists'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-deists''', '''Pan-Deists''', '''Pan Deists''', '''Pan deists'''
===Noun===
'''pandeists'''
# plural of [[pandeist]], one who believes in [[pandeism]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pæn'di'ĭs'tĭk}}

===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-deistic''', '''pan deistic'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and D are capitalized: '''Pandeistic''', '''PanDeistic'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-deistic''', '''Pan-Deistic''', '''Pan Deistic''', '''Pan deistic'''
===Adjective===
{{en-ad|pandeistic}}
# of or relating to [[pandeism]]
#:''Jubal... honestly believes in his own free will, which Mike, Jill, and the Fosterites misinterpret as a '''pandeistic''' urge, ‘Thou art God!’'' [[w:Dan Schneider|Dan Schneider]], ''Review of Stranger In A Strange Land (The Uncut Version), by Robert A. Heinlein''
#:''[C]alling God the author of sin demand[s] a '''pandeistic''' understanding of the universe effectively removing the reality of sin and moral law.'' Bob Burridge, ''Theology Proper - Lesson 4: The Decrees of God'' (1997)

====Translations====
'''of or relating to pandeism'''
{{top}}
*[[Spanish]]: pandeísta <nowiki>{{f}}</nowiki>

===See also===
*[[pandeist]]

<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>
----

==English==
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pæn'thi'ĭsts}}
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-theists''', '''pan theists'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and the initial T are capitalized: '''Pantheists''', '''PanTheists'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-theists''', '''Pan-Theists''', '''Pan Theists''', '''Pan theists'''
===Noun===
'''pantheists'''
# plural of [[pantheist]], one who believes in [[pantheism]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-theistic''', '''pan theistic'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and the initial T are capitalized: '''Pantheistic''', '''PanTheistic'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-theistic''', '''Pan-Theistic''', '''Pan Theistic''', '''Pan theistic'''
===Etymology===
From Greek Θεϊσμός
===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/pæn'thi'ĭs'tĭk}}
===Adjective===
{{en-ad|pantheistic}}
# of or relating to [[pantheism]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-theistical''', '''pan theistical'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and the initial T are capitalized: '''Pantheistical''', '''PanTheistical'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-theistical''', '''Pan-Theistical''', '''Pan Theistical''', '''Pan theistical'''
===Etymology===
From Greek Θεϊσμός
===Adjective===
{{en-ad|pantheistical}}
# of or relating to [[pantheism]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''pan-theistically''', '''pan theistically'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and the initial T are capitalized: '''Pantheistically''', '''PanTheistically'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Pan-theistically''', '''Pan-Theistically''', '''Pan Theistically''', '''Pan theistically'''
===Etymology===
From Greek Θεϊσμός
===Adjective===
{{en-ad|pantheistically}}
# in a [[pantheistic]] manner
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----
==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*may be hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''poly-deism''', '''poly deism'''
*either the P or both the P and D may be capitalized: '''Polydeism''', '''PolyDeism'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Poly-deism''', '''Poly-Deism''', '''Poly Deism''', '''Poly deism'''
===Noun===
'''polydeism''' (''plural'': uncountable)
# Belief of the existence of many [[gods]] who set the universe in motion, then ceased to interact with it.
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*may be hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''poly-deist''', '''poly deist'''
*either the P or both the P and D may be capitalized: '''Polydeist''', '''PolyDeist'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Poly-deist''', '''Poly-Deist''', '''Poly Deist''', '''Poly deist'''
===Noun===
'''polydeist''' (''plural'': '''[[polydeists]]''')
# a person who believes in [[polydeism]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*may be hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''poly-deists''', '''poly deists'''
*either the P or both the P and D may be capitalized: '''Polydeists''', '''PolyDeists'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Poly-deists''', '''Poly-Deists''', '''Poly Deists''', '''Poly deists'''
===Noun===
'''polydeists'''
# plural of [[polydeist]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''poly-theists''', '''poly theists'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and the initial T are capitalized: '''Polytheists''', '''PolyTheists'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Poly-theists''', '''Poly-Theists''', '''Poly Theists''', '''Poly theists'''
===Noun===
'''polytheists'''
# plural of [[polytheist]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''poly-theistical''', '''poly theistical'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and the initial T are capitalized: '''Polytheistical''', '''PolyTheistical'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Poly-theistical''', '''Poly-Theistical''', '''Poly Theistical''', '''Poly theistical'''
===Adjective===
{{en-ad|polytheistical}}
# of, or related [[polytheism]]
===See also===
*[[polytheistic]]
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----

==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*sometimes hyphenated or expressed as a phrase: '''poly-theistically''', '''poly theistically'''
*sometimes either the P or both the P and the initial T are capitalized: '''Polytheistically''', '''PolyTheistically'''
*variations of capitalization and spacing may be combined: '''Poly-theistically''', '''Poly-Theistically''', '''Poly Theistically''', '''Poly theistically'''
===Adverb===
{{en-ad|polytheistically}}
'''polytheistically'''
# in a [[polytheistic]] manner
<nowiki>[[Category:Religion]]</nowiki>

----