==English==

{{rank|important|mine|wild|575|front|France|London|save}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/fɹʌnt/}}
* {{audio|en-us-front.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌnt|-ʌnt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# the side or end of something that faces the direction it normally moves
# the side of a building with the building's main entrance
# ([[Military]]) an area where armies are engaged in conflict
# ('''Meteorology''') The [[interface]] or [[transition zone]] between two airmasses of different [[density]]. Since the [[temperature distribution]] is the most important [[regulator]] of [[atmospheric density]], a front almost invariably separates airmasses of different temperature. Fronts receive their names from the movement of the air masses involved.
# (''Meteorology'') an area where masses of warm and cold air meet, often resulting in precipitation
# a person or institution acting as the public face of some other, covert group
# a major military subdivision of the Soviet Army.
# ([[Military]]) The [[lateral]] space occupied by an [[element]] measured from the extremity of one [[flank]] to the extremity of the other flank.
# ([[Military]]) The direction of the [[enemy]].
# ([[Military]]) The line of contact of two [[opposing force]]s.
# ([[Military]]) When a [[combat]] situation does not exist or is not assumed, the direction toward which the [[command]] is faced.

====Antonyms====
*[[back]]
*[[rear]]

====Derived terms====
*[[storefront]]
*[[weather front]]
**[[cold front]]
**[[occluded front]]
**[[stationary front]]
**[[warm front]]

====Translations====
'''facing side'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: '''front''', {{m}} [[cara]], {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[前]] (mae)
*Swedish: [[framsida]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''main entrance side'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: façana principal, {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[正面]] (shōmen)
*Swedish: [[framsida]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''area of conflict'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: '''front''', {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[前線]] (zensen)
*Swedish: [[front]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''area where hot and cold air meet'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: '''front''', {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[前線]] (zensen)
*Swedish: [[front]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''public face of covert organisation'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[フロント]] (furonto)
*Swedish: [[bulvan]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''subdivision of Soviet army'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[voorkant]], [[frontzijde]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: Front ''f'' (1, 2), [[Vorderseite]] ''f'' (2), [[Wetterseite]] ''f'' (4)
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[avano]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[frente]] ''f'' (1, 2, 3, 4), [[dianteira]] ''f'' (1)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[frente]] ''m'' (3,4)

[[Category:Weather]]
[[Category:Military]]

===Adjective===
'''front'''

====Antonyms====
*[[back]]
*[[rear]]

===Verb===
'''to front''' ([[fronted]], fronted)

# to lead or be the spokesperson of a group.

----

==Catalan==
===Noun===
'''front''', {{m}}
# front
----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /fʁɔ̃/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /fRO~/

===Noun===
'''front''' ''m'' ([[fronts]])

# [[forehead]]

[[Category:fr:Anatomy]]

----

==German==
===Noun===
'''Front''' ''f'' (''plural'' [[Fronten]])

# the front end or side of something.

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''front''' ''c'' (''pl'' [[fronter]], ''def sing'' [[fronten]], ''def pl'' [[fronterna]])

# The front end or side of something.
#:''Bilen hade fått en ful buckla på '''fronten'''.''
#::"There was an ugly bump on the front of the car."
# [[front#English|front]] - the area were two armies are fighting each other.
#:''På väst'''fronten''' intet nytt'' (''All Quiet on the Western Front'', book by [[w:en:Erich Maria Remarque|Erich Maria Remarque]])
#[[front#English|front]] - area were hot and cold air meet
#[[front#English|front]] - one aspect of a larger undertaking which is temporarily seen as a separate undertaking in order to evaluate its progress in relationship to the whole.

====Derived terms====
*[[västfront]]
*[[östfront]]
*[[kallfront]]
*[[varmfront]]

[[Category:Swedish nouns]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[de:front]]
[[et:front]]
[[el:front]]
[[fr:front]]
[[gl:front]]
[[io:front]]
[[it:front]]
[[hu:front]]
[[pl:front]]
[[fi:front]]
[[sv:front]]
[[vi:front]]
[[zh:front]]