{{rfc}} 
{{wikipedia}}
==English== 
[[Category:English vulgarities]]
===Etymology=== 
First use in print is 15th century, in code and in pseudo-Latin (''gxddbov'', for ''fuccant''). Compare with Swedish ''[[focka]]'' (earlier, "fuck", nowadays "fire from work") and Dutch ''[[fokken]]'' (to breed). The Indo-European origins are largely hypothetical, and are based on a common root meaning "to strike." This has led to the Latin ''[[pugnus]]'' fist, and several other derivations in a wide range of Indo-European and Mediterranean languages.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     
===Pronunciation===
*fŭk, /fʌk/, /<tt>fVk</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ʌk|Rhymes: -ʌk]]

===Verb===
<!--Split into transitive and intransitive sections-->
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|fuck||}}
:Used both transitively and intransitively 
#(''often considered obscene; sometimes, instead, considered extremely or strongly vulgar'') To have [[sexual intercourse]], to [[copulate]].
#: "I got drunk and '''fucked''' Sean last night..."
#(''often considered obscene; sometimes, instead, considered extremely or strongly vulgar'') To insert one's penis (or dildo, or a specified object) into a specified body part.
#: '''''Fuck''' my ass!''
#: '''''Fuck''' me with your fingers.''
#(''markedly vulgar'') To put in an extremely difficult or impossible situation.
#: ''If you do that, I'm '''fucked'''.''
#(''markedly vulgar'') To break or destroy.
#: ''You're going to '''fuck''' that TV!''
#: ''I '''fucked''' <!--up -->my truck royally.''
<!--move this to "fuck around"/"fuck about"
#(''markedly vulgar; slang - intransitive''): To fool around.
#: ''He was just '''fucking''' around.''
-->

====Synonyms==== 
*see [[WikiSaurus:sexual intercourse]] 
*(''have sexual intercourse (with)''): [[bonk]] (''British''), [[shag]] (''British''), [[root]] (''Australian''), [[screw]] (''US'')

====Translations==== 
'''to have sexual intercourse'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[еба]] (eba) 
*Chinese: [[&#24615;&#20132;]] (xing4jiao1), [[搞]], [[干]], [[屌]]
*Czech: [[mrdat]], [[prcat]], [[šukat]], [[šoustat]], [[jebat]]
*Danish: [[kneppe]], [[bolle]], [[pule]] 
*Dutch: [[neuken]] 
*Finnish: [[naida]], [[panna#Finnish|panna]], [[nussia]]
*French: [[baiser]], [[fourrer]]
*German: [[ficken]], [[bumsen]], [[vögeln]], [[poppen]], [[knallen]], [[pimpern]], [[nageln]]
*Greek: [[synoosiazome]], (vulgar)[[gamao/gamo]]
*Italian: [[fottere]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[gan]]
*Malaysian: [[kongkek]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Polish: [[pierdolić]], [[pieprzyć]], [[jebać]]
*Portuguese: [[foder]], [[montar]], [[pinar]], [[comer]], [[transar]], [[trepar]]
*Russian: [[ебатся]]
*Slovak: [[jebať]], [[drbať]], [[šukať]], [[trtkať]]
*Spanish: [[follar]], follarse, (Latin America) coger
*[[Turkish]]: [[sikmek]]
*Welsh: [[ffwcio]], [[ffwrcho]], [[cnuchio]]
{{bottom}}

'''to insert one's penis into a specified body part'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[еба]] (eba) 
*Chinese: [[&#32911;]](cào)
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[neuken]] 
*Finnish: [[panna#Finnish|panna]]
{{bottom}}

'''to put in an extremely difficult or impossible situation'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[прецаквам]] (precakvam) 
*Chinese: [[&#24185;]]
*Dutch: [[verneuken]] 
*Finnish: [[olla#Finnish|olla]] [[kusi#Finnish|kusessa]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Polish: [[mieć przejebane]] (?)
*Russian: [[:ru:заебать|заебать]]
*Spanish: [[joder]], (Mexico) [[chingar]]
{{bottom}}

'''to break or destroy'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[развалям]] (razvaljam) 
*Polish: [[rozpierdolić]], [[rozjebać]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!--move this to "fuck around"/"fuck about"-->
'''playing or fooling; joking'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[шегувам се]] (šeguvam se) 
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[aankloten]] 
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Bosnian: [[jebati]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[follar]], [[cardar]], [[fotre]] 
*[[Esperanto]]: [[fiki]] 
*French: [[niquer]] 
*[[Hindi]]: (Chodh) (verb), (Chudai) (noun) 
*Hungarian: baszni (verb), baszás (noun) (1); baszogatni (verb) (3); kibaszott (adj) (4) 
*Indonesian: [[ngentot]] 
*Korean: <!--Korean required: this is just the transliteration--> (shibal)
*Latin: [[futuere]] 
*Latvian: pisties, drāzties, drātēties, ņemties
*Norwegian: [[pule#Norwegian|pule]], [[knulle]] 
*Romanian: [[fute]] 
*Russian: [[ебаться]], [[ебать]]
*Swedish: [[knulla]], pippa 
*[[Telugu]]: Dengu 
*Serbian: [[јебати]] (jebati), [[карати]] (karati) 
*Spanish: [[joder]], [[coger]], [[follar]], [[chingar]] (Mexico) 
*Turkish: [[düzmek]], [[sikmek]] 
*[[Urdu]]: [[چودنا]] (verb), (Chodi) (noun)

===Noun===
'''fuck''' (''plural'' '''[[fucks]]''') 

#An act of sexual intercourse.
#:''That was a great '''fuck'''.'' 
#A sexual partner.
#:''She's a good '''fuck'''.'' 
#A highly contemptible person 
#:''He is a stupid '''fuck'''.''
#Not caring
#:''I don't give a '''fuck'''!''

====Synonyms====
*see [[WikiSaurus:sexual intercourse]] 
*(''sexual intercourse''): [[bonk]] (''British''), [[shag]] (''British''), [[root]] (''Australian''), [[screw]] (''US'')

====Translations==== 

'''an act of sexual intercourse'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[nainti]], [[pano#Finnish|pano]]
*German: [[Fick]] ''m'', [[Bums]] ''m''
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[foda]], [[trepada]]
{{bottom}}

'''sexual partner'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[nainti]], [[pano#Finnish|pano]], [[hoito]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[foda]], [[trepada]]
{{bottom}}

'''highly contemptible person'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[kusipää]], [[vittupää]]
*French: [[connard]] ''m'', [[connasse]] ''f''
*Italian: [[stronzo]] ''m''
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is unreliable.
*Bulgarian: [[ебане]] ''n'' (ebane), [[секс]] ''m'' (seks; 1) 
*Catalan: [[clau]] 
*Dutch: [[wip]] (1, 2) 
*Esperanto: [[fiko]]  
*Polish: [[pieprzenie]] ''n'', [[jebanie]] ''n'' (1) 
*Romanian: [[futai/futere]] (noun, the act of fucking) 
*Swedish: [[knull]] ''n'', [[ligg]] ''n'' 
*Turkish: [[düzüşme]] ''n'', [[sikişme]] ''n'' ("siktir", fuck off)

===Interjection=== 
'''fuck'''
#Term of discontentment
#:''Oh '''fuck'''!''
#:'''''Fuck''' this!'' 
#Declaration or emphasis on one's feeling of awe or surprise, often used when observing a scene of grandeur or display of power.

====Translations==== 
*Dutch: [[kut]]! 
*Finnish: [[voi vittu]] (literally 'oh cunt')
*Polish: [[O kurwa]]! , [[O w kurwę]]!, [[Ja pierdole]]!

===Intensifier===
'''the fuck!'''

#Used after [[interrogative pronoun]]s as an intensifier to express anger, frustration or other strong emotion.

====Derived terms====
*[[how the fuck]]
*[[what the fuck]]
*[[when the fuck]]
*[[where the fuck]]
*[[who the fuck]]
*[[why the fuck]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Italian: [[cazzo]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
<!--move the definitions off this page and into the entries-->
*[[fucking]] - an intensifier adjective
*[[fucking]] - an intensifier infix.  '''unfuckingbelievable, infuckingcredible''' 
*[[buttfuck]] '''1.''' [[sodomy]]. '''2.''' rural or remote location. ''He spent most of his life in '''''Buttfuck''''', Alberta, '''''Buttfuck''''', Egypt (also BFE), etc.'' 
*[[fuck all]] - nothing
*[[fuck off]] '''1.''' go away! '''2.''' neglect: ''I knew I'd'' '''''fuck off''''' ''my homework.'' '''3.''' to masturbate 
*[[fuck about]] or [[fuck around]] mess about, waste time, play about 
*[[fuck someone around]] mess someone around 
*[[fuck someone off]] '''1.''' snub: ''As for her boss, she decided to'' '''''fuck him off''''' ''instead of meet with him under such unjustifiable circumstances.'' '''2.''' annoy someone greatly; piss someone off 
*[[fuck someone over]] treat badly, defraud, take advantage of 
*[[fuck someone up]] beat someone up, ruin someone's life or health or situation 
*[[fuck up]] '''1.''' ruin, spoil. '''2.''' one who is fundamentally incompetent. 
*[[fuck you]]! damn you! etc. 
*[[fucked up]] '''1.''' broken, destroyed or ruined: ''My car is '''''fucked up'''''.'' '''2.''' insanity or mental anguish: ''Ever since she left me, I've been all '''''fucked up'''''.'' 
*[[give a fuck]] care (at all) 
*[[googlyfuck]] 
*[[fuckload]] 
*[[fuckwad]] 
*[[lamefuck]] an ineffective person 
*[[mofo]]
*[[motherfucker]] 
*[[pigfucker]] (extremely vulgar) A highly undesirable person 
*[[sweet F A]] = sweet fuck all, nothing at all

[[de:fuck]]
[[fi:Fuck]]
[[sv:fuck]]