==English==
===Adjective===
'''funner'''
# ''(see usage note)'' Comparative of [[fun]].

===Usage===
''Funner'' is a regular comparative of the adjective ''[[fun]]''.  However, the use of ''fun'' as an adjective is itself still often seen as informal<ref>''American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language'', 4th edition, 2000. (web version) [http://www.bartleby.com/61/11/F0361100.html]</ref> or casual<ref>Edith Hope Fine, Judith Pinkerton Josephson, ''More Nitty-Gritty Grammar,'' 2001. [http://www.bartleby.com/61/11/F0361100.html]</ref> and to be avoided in formal writing, and this would apply equally to the comparative form.  Merriam-Webster, however, gives ''fun'' as an adjective without comment, and states that ''funner'' and ''funnest'' are ‘sometimes’ used<ref>[http://m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=fun&x=0&y=0]</ref>.  Because of the remaining stigma, ''more fun'' may be preferred in formal writing.

===Quotations===
* '''1979,''' ''Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention in Wyoming,'' United States. Congress. Senate. Committee on the Judiciary. Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency
*: "I wish I would have played basketball when I was out. It's a lot more '''funner'''." 
* '''1992,''' Ana Malinow Rajkovic, ''Manual for (Relatively) Painless Medical Spanish'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN029275146X&id=6MVFwbhxaT0C&pg=PP15&lpg=PP15&dq=funner&sig=d5BINTBWGlKwMJu78EG3p1TSGWg]
*: Sounds like a great vacation, doesn’t it? It would be much '''funner''', undoubtedly, to spend four weeks learning intensive Spanish in Guadalajara... but what do you expect for this price?
* '''2000,''' Julia Bourland, ''The Go-Girl Guide'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0809224763&id=MMkjJFEnojgC&pg=PA300&lpg=PA300&dq=funner&sig=4u7kb12DOAmU8tPlh9vX_QjE2yA]
*: Every wardrobe needs an all-purpose cocktail dress, but these are often '''funner''' if you can find a retro party dress in flawless shape at a vintage clothing store.

===References===
<references/>