==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[funny ha ha]]
*[[funny-ha ha]]
*[[funny-haha]]
*[[funny/ha ha]]
*[[funny/haha]]
===Adjective===
'''[[funny]] [[ha-ha]]'''

# [[humorous]], as opposed to [[strange]] (the other meaning of ''[[funny]]'')
#*'''1936,''' Ian Hay, ''The Housemaster''
#*:What do you mean, funny? Funny peculiar or '''funny ha-ha'''?
#*'''1945,''' Robert J. Menner, ''Multiple Meaning and Change of Meaning in English,'' in ''Language,'' Vol. 21, No. 2
#*:''Funny'' is now occasionally ambiguous, as a slang expression fashionable a decade ago shows: “Do you mean '''''funny'' ‘ha-ha’''' or ''funny'' ‘peculiar’?”
#*'''1952,''' Madison Bently, review of ''Statement on Race,'' in ''The American Journal of Psychology,'' Vol. 65, No. 1
#*:They might be men: they certainly were funny (funny-peculiar not '''funny-ha ha''').
#*'''2003,''' Lesley Chamberlain, ''The Secret Artist: A Close Reading of Sigmund Freud''
#*:Freud loves mistakes because they open up so much scope for humor, and he watches how what first strikes us as “'''funny ha ha'''” shades into “funny peculiar.”
#*'''2004,''' W. R. Adams, ''Rairarubia''
#*:In the morning, she couldn’t remember much, only that the dream left her feeling kind of funny inside. Not '''funny ha-ha''', but funny weird-like.
#*'''2005,''' ''C++ Cookbook''
#*:First of all, they have funny syntax (not '''funny ha-ha''', funny strange).
# humorous, as opposed to [[serious]] or non-funny
#*'''1971,''' Harold Robbins, ''The Betsy''
#*:But it wasn’t a '''funny ha-ha''' smile. It was the kind of smile you have when you find a friend.
#*'''1999,''' Anna Fienberg, ''Borrowed Light''
#*:Mostly he makes jokes about Mum’s cooking. Not the '''funny ha-ha''' jokes, more the sneery, condescending snipes that leave an uncomfortable silence, while you decide whose side you should be on.
#*'''2003,''' Steven Cooper, ''With You in Spirit''
#*:She laughs, not a '''funny ha-ha''' laugh but rather a tiny self-inflicted chuckle of disgust.
#*'''2005,''' Jan Carole, ''Anatomy of Pain''
#*:I laugh when talking about this; it is not the '''funny ha-ha''' kind of laugh, but the uncomfortable kind.
===Synonyms===
*[[ha-ha funny]]
[[Category:English adjectives]]