''This entry needs to be changed into the format of the template: [[Wiktionary:Entries on Chinese characters]].''

----

==Chinese==
車 - romanized ''che<sup>1</sup>'' in pinyin and Yale, ''ch'e'' in Wade-Giles.  It has seven strokes.  It is a [[traditional Chinese]] character meaning ''cart'' or ''vehicle''.  It is derived from a pictogram of a carriage seen from above, with the long vertical stroke representing the axle, the central square representing the body of the carriage, and the top and bottom horizontal lines representing the wheels.

&#36554; is the 159th radical of the Chinese dictionary.  Compound characters such as [[&#x8f18;]] will mostly have the radical on the left, and will have a meaning that is somehow related to vehicles.  Other derivatives may be oriented differently, such as [[&#x8f5f;]] which pictures three chariots and is applied to the noisy '''roar''' that comes from the passing of many chariots.

Its simplified version is [[车]].

----

==Japanese [[Kanji]]==

*'''Readings'''
**'''[[On]]''': [[しゃ]] (sha)
**'''[[Kun]]''': [[くるま]] (kuruma)

*'''Other Info:''' Its [[kun]] reading may be used alone as a word.  Its [[on]] reading is mainly used in many compounds like [[電車]] (でんしゃ ''densha'') - train, and [[自転車]] (じてんしゃ jitensha) - bicycle.

----

==Korean [[Hanja]]==
'''Pronunciation''': 차 (cha), 거 (geo)

'''Common words with this character''': 기차 [氣車] (gicha) train, 자동차 [自動車] (jadongcha) car, automobile

----

==Technical Information==
*'''Unicode'''
**Hex: 8ECA
**Decimal: 36554