=={{en}}==
[[Category:English language|S]]
===Contraction===
#Possessive marker, indicating than an object belongs to the noun or noun phrase bearing the marker.
#:''The cat bit the dog's tail and ran.''
#:''The cat bit the dog with the shaggy fur's tail and ran.''
#May be used to mean "the house/place/establishment of" when added to a name.
#:''We're going to Luigi's for dinner tonight.'' (that is, Luigi's house or Luigi's restaurant)
#Contraction of [[is]].
#:''The dog's running after me!''
#Contraction of [[has]].
#:''The dog's been chasing the mail carrier again.''
#(''informal'') Contraction of [[does]].
#:''What's he do for a living?''

====Usage notes====
*Usage of the possessive marker with words ending in ''s'' varies.  The final ''s'' is dropped after regular plurals.
**''the dog's tail'' but ''the dogs' tails.''
and may or may not be dropped after words ending in ''s'', depending on one's pronunciation (see the rule of thumb below)
**''St. James's'' or ''St. James'''

*Irregular plurals with endings other than ''s'' always take '''s''.
**''the children's voices''

*Possessives can generally be recast using ''of the'', and this may be advisable if the contraction seems awkward or ambiguous (which is often the case in speech).
**''the tails of the dogs.''

*Traditionally, the possessive of the biblical name Jesus is written without a final ''s''.
**''Jesus' disciples''

*This may or may not apply to the Spanish [[given name]] Jesus.
**''This is Jesus Ramirez, and this is Jesus's wife.''

*When referring to things possessed by two people, the strictly correct form is to form the possessive of both names, as in "Jack's and Jill's pails".  It is common to treat the pair of names as a noun phrase and to form its possessive instead, using only one '' 's'', as in "Jack and Jill's pails".

'''When to use the possessive'''

It is not always clear when a noun should be in the possessive.  Here are some guidelines.

*If you can rephrase "Xs Y" to "the Y of X", then "Xs" is a possessive.
**''the country's leader'' can be rephrased as ''the leader of the country'', so ''country's'' is a possessive, spelled as shown
*If the noun is singular but is pronounced with an (extra) ''s'' on the end, it is a possessive.
**''a child's mother''
**''a circus's clowns''
*If the noun is plural, and when it is singular, there is still an ''s'' on the end, it is a possessive
**In ''three weeks wages'', is "weeks" a possessive?  You would read the singular as "one weeks wages".  "Weeks" still an ''s'' on the end here, so it is a possessive.  Hence use the possessive: ''three weeks' wages'' (and ''one week's wages'').
**In ''two months pregnant'', is "months" a possessive?  You would read the singular as "one month pregnant".  "Month" has no ''s'' on the end here, so it is not a possessive.  Hence it is just a plural: ''two months pregnant''.

'''Whether to add '' 's'' or just an apostrophe'''

*An excellent rule of thumb for determining whether to add '' 's'' or an apostrophe alone is the following: '''If you add an ''s'' to the noun when pronouncing the possessive, add '' 's'' when writing the possessive; otherwise add only an apostrophe.'''  Examples:
**the possessive of ''dog'' is pronounced ''dogs'', so add '' 's'' to ''dog'' to get ''dog's'';
**the possessive of ''dogs'' is pronounced the same way, so add just an apostrophe to get ''dogs' '';
**the possessive of ''James'' can be pronounced either ''Jameses'' or ''James'', so add either '' 's'' or just an apostrophe to get ''James's'' or ''James' '', according to your pronunciation;
**the possessive of ''Joneses'' (meaning the people making up the Jones family) is pronounced ''Joneses'', so add just an apostrophe to get ''Joneses' ''.

====Translations====

'''possessive marker'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[de]] (''after the thing owned and before the owner'')
*:''the dog's tail'' - la queue du chien
*Italian: [[di]] (''after the thing owned and before the owner'')
*:''the dog's tail'' - la coda del cane
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''the house/place/establishment of'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[chez]] (''before the owner'')
*:''Luigi's'' - chez Luigi
*Italian: [[da]] (''before the owner'')
*:''Luigi's'' - da Luigi
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''contraction of "is"'''
''See'' '''[[is]]'''

'''contraction of "has"'''
''See'' '''[[has]]'''

'''contraction of "does"'''
''See'' '''[[does]]'''

===Suffix===
#Used to form the plurals of [[numeral]]s, [[letter]]s, some [[abbreviation]]s and some nouns, usually because the omission of an apostrophe would make the meaning unclear or ambiguous.
#:''There are four 3's in my phone number."
#:''"Banana" has three a's and one b.'' (apostrophe ''s'' used so that the plural of "a" is not confused with the word "as")
#:''You can buy CD's in that shop.''
#:''These are the do's and don'ts.'' (apostrophe ''s'' used as "dos" may be misread)
#(''incorrectly'') Used to form the plural of nouns that correctly take just an ''s'' in the plural.  See '''[[greengrocer's apostrophe]]'''.
#:''Apple's 50p a pound''

====Usage notes====
*The use of '' 's'' to form plurals is to be avoided except when the meaning would be unclear.  The following are preferable:
**3s, CDs, 1980s, '80s ''or'' 80s (''short for "1980s" &ndash; this apostrophe is used here to indicate the omission of "19")
*However, ''do's'' is commonly seen, and the plurals of letters, especially of lower-case "a" and "i", are best written with an apostrophe to avoid confusion.
*The use of the apostrophe in any other plural (as in "apple's") &mdash; the so-called "[[greengrocer's apostrophe]]" &mdash; is incorrect.

====Translations====
''See'' '''[[-s]]'''

===See also===
*[[its]], [[it's]]
*[[greengrocer's apostrophe]]

[[ja:'s]]