==Cyrillic alphabet==
===Letter===
'''Ж, ж''' (''italics: Ж, ж'')

#The eighth letter of the Russian [[Cyrillic]] alphabet. Its name is '''жэ''' {{IPAchar|(žɛ)}} and it sounds like the '''s''' in ''plea'''s'''ure''. It is preceded by [[Ё]] and followed by [[З]].

----

==Russian==
===Particle===
'''ж''' (ž), же (že)

* this very, this same, but, then, surely, just, ever, on earth, for goodness’ sake<br>
(The emphatic particle '''же''' (že), frequently shortened to '''ж''' (ž), gives emphasis to the preceding word. It imparts urgency to an imperative verb.)
:* [[Что]] ж? (što ž) — ''What then?''
:* Что ж! (što ž) — ''Well then!''
:* [[Когда]] же? (kogdá že) — ''When then?''
:* [[Где]] же это? (gde že éto) — ''Where is it then?''
:* [[Ну]] что же? (nu što že) — ''What of it, then?''
:* Ну [[и]] что ж? (nu i što ž) — ''Well, what of it?''
:* Что ж [[из]] [[этот|этого]]? (što ž iz étovo) — ''What of it?''
:* Что ж, [[он]] [[сам]] это [[делать|сделает]]! (što ž, on sam éto sdélajet) — ''Why, he’ll just do it himself!''
:* Что же [[он|ему]] [[делать]]? (što že jemú délat’) — ''What on earth can he do?''
:* [[Он]] [[все|всё]] [[тот]] же! (on vsjo tot že) — ''He’s always the same!''
:* Это то же [[самый|самое]]. (éto to že sámoje) — ''It’s the same thing.''
:* [[говорить|Говорите]] же! (govoríte že) — ''Aren’t you going to say anything?!?''
:* [[отвечать|Отвечайте]] же? (otvečájte že) — ''Answer me then!''
:* [[идти|Пойдём]] же! (pojdjóm že) — ''Come along!''
:* [[Я]] же [[ты|тебе]] [[говорить|сказал]]! (ja že tebé skazál) — ''But I told you!''

===Abbreviation===
'''ж.'''
#[[женский]] [[род]] (žénskij rod) ''m'' — ''[[feminine]] [[gender]]''

'''Ж'''
#[[женская]] ([[уборная]]) (žénskaja ubórnaja) — ''[[Ladies' room]]''

===See also===
*[[w:Cyrillic alphabet|Wikipedia article on the Cyrillic alphabet]]

----

*Search '''en.wiktionary.org''' for articles for beginning with: '''[http://wiktionary.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=Special:Allpages&from=Ж Ж]

[[Category:Cyrillic letters]]