==Russian==
[[Category:Russian pronouns]]
===Personal pronoun===
'''они''' (oní)

# third-person plural pronoun: [[they]].

===Declension===
{| border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0"
!
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"|masc. sg.
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"|fem. sg.
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"|neut. sg.
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"|plural
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[nominative case|nominative]]
| align="center"|{{Unicode|он}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|она́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|оно́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|они́}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[genitive case|genitive]]
| align="center"|{{Unicode|его́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|её}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|его́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|их}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[dative case|dative]]
| align="center"|{{Unicode|ему́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|ей}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|ему́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|им}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[accusative case|accusative]]
| align="center"|{{Unicode|его́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|её}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|его́}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|их}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[instrumental case|instrumental]]
| align="center"|{{Unicode|им}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|е́ю / ей}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|им}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|и́ми}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[prepositional case|prepositional]]
| align="center"|{{Unicode|о нём}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|о не́й}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|о нём}}
| align="center"|{{Unicode|о ни́х}}
|}


:N.B.— Whenever a [[preposition]] stands immediately before any of the [[oblique case]]s of the [[third-person]] [[pronoun]] (singular or plural) and directly governs it, then an '''н'''- must be prefixed to the pronoun: '''[[от]] неё''' (ot nejó, ''from her''), '''[[на]] нём''' (na njom, ''on him''), '''[[у]] них''' (u nikh, ''they have''), '''[[к]] нему''' (k nemú, ''to him''), '''[[с]] нею''' (s néju, ''with her'').
:The explanation for the '''н'''-[[prothesis]] is that, originally, some Russian prepositions ended in the letter -'''н''': '''вън''' (vŭn, ''“in, into”''), '''сън''' (sŭn, ''“with”''...cf. Greek '''[[σύν]]''', Latin '''[[cum]]''', English '''[[on]]''', '''[[in]]'''). Eventually, the final '''н''' of these prepositions migrated across to the pronoun, so that '''сън ими''' became modern '''[[с]] ними''', and then this was extended to include ''all'' prepositions when governing any third-person pronoun.
:Note that if the preposition does '''not''' directly govern '''его'''/'''её'''/'''их''' (i.e., when they are [[possessive pronoun]]s), then '''н'''- is not inserted: '''[[у]] [[его]] [[брат|брата]]''' (u jevó bráta, ''at his brother’s''), '''[[о]] [[её]] [[мать|матери]]''' (o jejó máteri, ''about her mother''), '''[[в]] [[их]] [[комната|комнате]]''' (v jikh kómnate, ''in their room'').

===Related terms===
*[[их]]
*[[свой]]

===See also===
*[[я]]
*[[ты]]
*[[он]]
*[[она]]
*[[оно]]
*[[мы]]
*[[вы]]
*'''[[сам]]'''
*'''[[себя]]'''

[[Category:Russian language]]
[[ru:Они]]