==Arabic==
[[Category:Arabic verbs]]
[[Category:Arabic nouns]]
[[Category:Arabic adjectives]]
[[Category:Arabic adverbs]]
[[Category:Arabic elatives]]
===Verb===
{{ARchar|حَسُنَ}} (ħásuna) ''v.i., Stem I (3rd masc. sg. perfective)''

# to be [[good]]
# to become [[good]]

===Verb===
{{ARchar|حَسّنَ}} (ħássana) ''v.t., Stem II (3rd masc. sg. perfective)''

# to [[improve]], to [[ameliorate]], to [[better]], to [[polish]], to [[embellish]]
# to [[perfect]]
# to [[prettify]], to [[beautify]], to [[adorn]], to make [[attractive]]
# to [[bedeck]], to [[ornament]], to [[decorate]], to [[deck out]], to [[garnish]]
# to apply [[cosmetics]], to put on [[makeup]]
# to [[amend]]
# to [[fake]]

===Verb===
{{ARchar|أحْسَنَ}} (’aħsána) ''v.i./v.t., Stem IV (3rd masc. sg. perfective)''

# to make good
# to do well, to act well, to act right
# to excel in, to gain mastery in
# to know how to use, to be able to use, to know how to do, to know


::* {{ARchar|[[انجليزي|الإنْجِلِيزِيّة]] ‎‎يُحْسِنُ}} (yúħsinu l-’ingilizíyya)
:::1. He knows English.

===Verb===
{{ARchar|تَحَسّنَ}} (taħássana) ''reflexive, Stem V (3rd masc. sg. perfective)''

# to [[improve]]
# to get better
# to [[ameliorate]]
# to [[reform]]

===Verb===
{{ARchar|اِسْتَحْسَنَ}} (istáħsana) ''v.t., Stem X (3rd masc. sg. perfective)''

# to think good, to approve


----

===Noun===
{{ARchar|حُسْنٌ}} (ħúsnun, ''m''), '''حُسْنَاء''' (ħusná’, ''f'')

# [[goodness]]
# [[prettiness]], [[beauty]], [[loveliness]], [[shapeliness]], [[comeliness]], [[gorgeousness]], [[pulchritude]]
# [[handsomeness]]
# [[charm]], charms, [[glamor]]
# [[glory]]
# [[nicety]], [[fineness]], [[grace]], [[gracefulness]], [[foppery]]
# [[fineness]], [[efficiency]], [[efficacy]]

===Noun===
{{ARchar|حَسَنَة}} (ħásanah, ''f'')

# [[advantage]]

===Noun===
{{ARchar|تَحْسِين}} (taħsíin, ''m'')

# [[amelioration]], [[betterment]], [[improvement]], [[beautification]]
# [[embellishment]], [[decoration]], [[garnishment]], [[ornamentation]]
# [[perfection]]
# [[amendment]]


----

===Adjective===
{{ARchar|حَسَن}} (ħásan, ''m''), {{ARchar|حَسَنَة}} (ħásanah, ''f, pl'')

# [[good]], [[fine]], [[well]]
# [[agreeable]], [[pleasant]], [[nice]], [[well-favored]]
# [[pretty]], [[beautiful]], [[lovely]], [[comely]], [[sightly]], [[shapely]], [[gorgeous]], [[fair]]
# [[handsome]], [[good-looking]], [[magnificent]]
# [[well-turned]]
# [[radiant[[, [[glad]], [[charming]]
# [[graceful]], [[fine]], [[dainty]]
# [[okay]], [[all right]]

===Adjective===
{{ARchar|تَحْسِينِي}} (taħsíini, ''m''), {{ARchar|تَحْسِينِيَّة}} (taħsiníyyah, ''f, pl'')

# [[amendatory]]


----

===Elative===
{{ARchar|أحْسَنُ}} (’áħsan, ''invariable'')

# [[better]], [[finer]]
# [[prettier]], [[more beautiful]], [[lovelier]], [[more handsome]]

===Elative===
{{ARchar|الأحْسَنُ}} (al-’áħsan, ''m''), {{ARchar|الحُسْنَى}} (al-ħúsna, ''f''), {{ARchar|الحُسَنٌ}} (al-ħúsanun, ''pl'')

# [[best]], [[finest]]
# [[prettiest]], [[most beautiful]], [[loveliest]], [[handsomest]]


----

===Adverb===
{{ARchar|حَسَنًا}} (ħásanan)

# [[well]], [[fine]], [[okay]], [[good]]


::* {{ARchar|كَانَ حَسَنًا}} (kána ħásanan)
::# He was good (well, fine, okay).