'''''Wasei-eigo''''' (&#21644;&#35069;&#33521;&#35486; ''wasei eigo'', lit. "Made-in-Japan English") refers to [[English language|English]] constructions not in use in [[Anglophone]] countries nor by Anglophones, but only by speakers of [[Japanese language|Japanese]]. (However, other countries that are not Anglophones have borrowed words from Japanese, spreading the use of these words. For example, &#50500;&#54028;&#53944; ''apat'' in [[Korean language|Korean]] is clearly borrowed from the Japanese word, not the English word.)
A more general term for made-in-Japan foreign words is ''[[gairaigo|wasei-gairaigo]]'', which usually applies to words made from European languages.

One example is the word ''desk'' (&#12487;&#12473;&#12463;: ''desuku''). It seems like perfectly good English, but in Japan, it is a title for a person. ''Tanaka-desk'' would be a reporter or editor in charge of a department at a newspaper (for example, the city desk). Similarly, ''mansion'' ([[:ja:&#12510;&#12531;&#12471;&#12519;&#12531;]]: ''manshon'') refers not to a mansion, but an apartment. Wasei-eigo words can form compounds with Japanese words, for example, ''okushon'' (&#20740;&#12471;&#12519;&#12531;) combines ''oku'', meaning hundred million, with "mansion" to form a new word meaning "luxury apartment". Sometimes, two English words with their normal meanings will be combined to form a new compound word. One famous instance is ''famicom'' (&#12501;&#12449;&#12511;&#12467;&#12531;: ''famikon'' or [[:ja:&#12501;&#12449;&#12511;&#12522;&#12540;&#12467;&#12531;&#12500;&#12517;&#12540;&#12479;]]: ''family computer''), a [[portmanteau]] of "family" and "computer", meaning a [[video game]] system (especially, but not necessarily, ''the'' [[Famicom]], known to the rest of the world as the [[Nintendo Entertainment System]]). Sometimes the resulting words make as much, or more, sense than their standard English equivalents. (see: ''fried potato'' or ''recycle shop'' below, in examples.)


<!-- Todo:
Examples (e.g. paper-driver)

** i added some examples from the japanese wikipedia, plus romanji and stuff! woohoo! 

discussion of wasei-eigo terms as perceived by Japanese
distinction vs. [[Engrish]]
-->
==Examples==
{| border="2"
| '''Japanese word:''' ([[Katakana]] & [[romaji]]:) 
| '''Lit. Translation & Common English meaning:'''
|- 
| &#12486;&#12524;&#12499;&#12466;&#12540;&#12512; (terebige-mu)  
| tv game / video game
|- 
| &#12514;&#12540;&#12491;&#12531;&#12464;&#12467;&#12540;&#12523; (mo-ninguko-ru) 
| morning call / wake-up call
|- 
| &#12496;&#12483;&#12463;&#12511;&#12521;&#12540; (bakkumira-) 
| back mirror / rearview mirror
|- 
| &#12501;&#12522;&#12540;&#12480;&#12452;&#12516;&#12523; (furi-daiyaru) 
| free dial / toll free call
|- 
| &#12488;&#12521;&#12531;&#12503; (turanpu) 
| trumps / playing cards
|- 
| &#12497;&#12531;&#12463; (panku)
| puncture / flat tire
|- 
| &#12473;&#12510;&#12540;&#12488; (suma-to)
| smart / slim 
|- 
| &#12471;&#12540;&#12523; (shi-ru) 
| seal / sticker
|- 
| &#12472;&#12455;&#12483;&#12488;&#12467;&#12540;&#12473;&#12479;&#12540; (jettoko-suta-) 
| jet coaster / roller coaster
|- 
| &#12496;&#12540;&#12472;&#12519;&#12531;&#12450;&#12483;&#12503; (ba-jyonappu)
| version up / upgrade (software) 
|- 
| &#12501;&#12521;&#12452;&#12489;&#12509;&#12486;&#12488; (furaidopoteto) 
| fried potato / USA: french fries UK: chips
|- 
| &#12507;&#12483;&#12481;&#12461;&#12473; (hocchikisu)
| Hotchkiss / Stapler
|- 
| &#12522;&#12469;&#12452;&#12463;&#12523;&#12471;&#12519;&#12483;&#12503; (risaikurusyoppu) 
| recycle shop / secondhand shop (used clothes)  
|}

==See also==
* [[Engrish]]
* [[gairaigo|wasei-gairaigo]]

==External link==
*[http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/afaq/wasei-eigo.html Examples]

[[ja:&#21644;&#35069;&#33521;&#35486;]]
{{stub}}
[[Category:Japanese terms]][[Category:Japanese language]]