* '''Alternate form''': [[东]]

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index| Radical]] Number 75''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index 木|木]]+4 strokes

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index|Stroke number]]''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index 8|8]]

*'''Stroke order'''
*# The top-most horizontal stroke is done, from left to right.
*# The left-most vertical stroke is done, from top to bottom.
*# The horizontal line that's second from the top and the right-most vertical line are done in one stroke, from top-left to bottom-right.
*# The horizontal line in the middle of the 'box' is done, from left to right.
*# The bottom-most horizontal line is done, from left to right.
*# The middle vertical line is done, from top to bottom.
*# The diagonal line on the left is done, from top-right to bottom-left.
*# The diagonal line on the right is done, from top-left to bottom-right.

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese four corner index|Four-Corner System]]''': 5090<sub>6</sub>

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese Cangjie index|Cangjie input]]''': 木田 (DW)

* '''Graphical Significance and Origin''': 

* '''Common Meaning''': [[east]], [[eastern]], [[eastward]]

----

== Chinese [[Hanzi]] ==

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[Mandarin]]'''
*** '''[[Pinyin]]''': dōng (dong1)
*** '''[[Wade-Giles]]''': tung<sup>1</sup>
*** '''[[Yale]]''': 
** '''[[Cantonese]]'''
*** '''[[Jyutping]]''':
*** '''[[Penkyamp]]''': 
*** '''[[Yale]]''': dung1

* '''Style''': [[Traditional Chinese]] 
** '''[[Simplified Chinese|Simplified]] equivalent''': [[东]]

* '''Other info''': 

----

== Japanese [[Kanji]] ==

* '''Readings'''
** '''[[On]]''': [[とう]] (tō)
** '''[[Kun]]''': [[ひがし]] (higashi), [[あずま]] (azuma)

* '''Other info''':  

----

== [[Korean]] [[Hanja]] ==

* '''[[Hangeul]]''': 동

* '''[[Eumhun]] reading''': 

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[The 2000 South Korean Revised Romanization|The 2000 South Korean Revised]]''': dong
** '''[[McCune-Reischauer]]''': tong
** '''[[Yale]]''': tong
----

== [[Vietnamese]] [[Quốc ngữ]] ==

* '''Reading''': đông <!--hốc-->

----

== Dictionary Information ==

* KangXi: 0513.120
* Morobashi: 14499
* Dae Jaweon: 0899.080
* Hanyu Da Zidian: 21165.040

== Technical Information ==

* '''Unicode''':
** Hex: 6771
** Decimal: 26481
* '''Big5''':
** Hex: AA46
** Decimal: 43590

[[hu:東]]