''The template of entries on Chinese characters can be found at [[Wiktionary:Entries on Chinese characters]].''

----

* '''Alternate form(s)''': [[犭]]

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical | Radical]]''': itself

* '''Stroke number''': 4. 
*: Although the alternative form clearly shows only three strokes, it is still counted as four strokes when using a Chinese dictionary. 

* '''Graphic and History''': 大 (big) with a dot. ''(Significance?)''
*: (犭: A dog that is up on his hind legs.)

* '''Common Meaning''':
**[[Dog]]

----

== Chinese ==

* '''Romanizations''': 
** '''[[Pinyin]]''': quǎn (quan3) 
** '''[[Wade-Giles]]''': ch'uan³
** '''[[Yale]]''': chwan

* '''Style''': [[traditional Chinese]]
** '''[[simplified Chinese | Simplified]] equivalent''': none

* '''Example Words''': 
** [[鷹]]犬 (ying1 quan3) "dogs that hunt eagle"
** [[警]]犬 (jing3 quan3) "police dog"
** [[黃]]犬[[音]] (huang2 quan3 yin1) "news"
** 犬[[齒]] (quan3 chi3) "canine tooth", a.k.a. 犬[[牙]] (quan3 ya2) or [[虎]]牙 (fu3 ya2)

* '''Other info''': &#29356; is the 94th radical in the Chinese dictionary.  Compound characters such as [[&#29383]] mostly use the alternative form at the left of the character.  Most represent something to do with dogs or other animals A smaller proportion (e. g. [[&#29376]]) use the primary form at the right of the character.  A few even show both forms: in [[&#29508;]] which means "prison" or "litigation"; "words" ([[&#35328;]])  stand between two dogs to keep them from biting each other.



----


== Japanese [[Kanji]] ==

*'''Readings'''
** '''[[On]]''': [[けん]] (ken)
** '''[[Kun]]''': [[いぬ]] (inu).

* '''Example words''':
** 警察犬 (けいさつけん, keisatsu-ken) "police dog"
** 盲導犬 (もうどうけん, mōdō-ken) "guide dog" (for visually impaired person)

----


== Korean [[Hanja]] ==

* '''Pronunciation''': 견 (gyeon). 

* '''Example Words''': 
** 투견 [鬪犬] (tugyeon) "fighting dog"
** 견공 [犬公] (gyeon-gong) "dog"



----


== Technical Information ==

*'''Unicode for''' 犬
**Hex: 72AC
**Decimal: 29356
*'''Unicode for''' 犭
**Hex: 72AD 
**Hecimal: 29357