== Japanese ==
=== Noun ===
'''[[進]][[歩]]''' ([[しんぽ]], [[shinpo]])

# [[progress]]; [[improvements]] in [[social welfare]].
#* [[コンピューター]]は[[急速]]な'''[[進歩]]'''を[[遂げる|遂げた]]。
#*: コンピューターはきゅうそくな'''しんぽ'''をとげた。
#*: konpyūtā wa kyūsoku na '''shinpo''' o togeta.
#*: ''Computers have made rapid '''progress'''.''
# [[Personal]] progress, usually in the [[development]] of a skill.
#* その[[生徒]]の[[進歩]]は[[申し分ない]]。
#*: そのせいとのしんぽはもうしぶない。
#*: sono seito no '''shinpo''' wa moushibunai.
#*: ''The student's '''progress''' is satisfactory.''

=== Verb ===
'''[[進歩する]]''' ([[しんぽする]], [[shinposuru|shinpo-suru]])

# To [[improve]] (in reference to a [[society]]'s [[technological]] [[capability]] or general [[quality of life]]).
#* [[医学]]は[[めざましい|めざましく]]'''進歩して'''いる。
#*: いがくはめざましく'''しんぽして'''いる。
#*: igaku wa mezamashiku shinpo shiteiru.
#*: ''Progress in medicine is going ahead by leaps and bounds.''
# To [[advance]] in [[proficiency]]; to [[make progress]] in the [[development]] of a [[skill]].
#* トムの[[英語]]は[[少しずつ]]'''進歩して'''いる。
#*: {{needs hiragana}}
#*: {{needs romaji}}
#*: ''Tom's Japanese is improving little by little.''


=== Usage note ===
[[進歩]] is quite common as a verb, and it is most easily understood in relation to the English word ''progress''.  It is frequently used in reference to social progress, particularly of a technological nature, and to personal progress in a skill.  It is not generally used to refer to progress in other sorts of endeavors, such as a trip up a mountain (e.g., "Due to the blizzard, their progress was slow."), or of time in general (e.g., "As the evening progressed, the party became more chaotic.").