==Finnish==

===-n (1)===

====Etymology====

From the Uralic genitive suffix ''*-n''.

====Case suffix====
'''-n''' 

# used to form the [[genitive]] case.
#: ''tytö<b>n</b> takki'' "girl's coat"
#: ''poikani takki'' "the coat of my son"

====Usage====
When [[possessive suffix]]es are used, the genitive hasn't got its suffix '''-n'''. The possessive suffixes are appended to a vowel stem instead, thus often rendering the nominative and genitive singular identical.

===-n (2)===

====Etymology====

From Fenno-Volgaic accusative suffix ''*-m''.

====Case suffix====
'''-n'''

# used to form the [[accusative]] case.
#: ''näin tytö<b>n</b>'' "I saw a/the girl"
#: ''tapasin poikani eilen'' "I met my son yesterday"

====Notes====
The genitive singular and accusative singular look identical in Finnish. The [[object]] of an transitive verb may look also like the [[nominative]] but it's still called the accusative in traditional grammars. There's also the partial object, which uses the [[partitive]] case. For the accusative forms of personal pronouns, see [[-t#Finnish|-t]].

===-n (3)===

====Case suffix====
'''-n''' (''not used with possessive suffixes'')

# Used to form the [[instructive]] case, usually only in the plural.
#:''Pääsin ojan yli kuivi<b>n</b> jaloi<b>n</b>'' "I could cross the ditch with dry feet."

===-n (4)===

====Etymology====

From the Uralic first person singular suffix ''*-mV'', probably connected with the first person pronoun ''*mV''; see eg. Finnish ''[[minä]]''.

====Personal suffix====

# The first person singular suffix for verbs
#: ''[[lukea]]'' -> ''lue<b>n</b>'' "I read/am reading" 
#: ''[[kadottaa]]'' -> ''kadoti<b>n</b>'' "I lost (an item)"
#: ''[[tulla]]'' -> ''e<b>n</b> tule'' "I won't come/I'm not coming"

====See also====
*[[-t#Finnish|-t]]
*[[-mme#Finnish|-mme]]
*[[-tte#Finnish|-tte]]
*[[-vat#Finnish|-vat]]

===External links===
*Wikipedia article on [[w:Finnish grammar|Finnish grammar]]
----
==Esperanto==
===Ending===
# [[accusative]] ending, also marks direction.

----
==Swedish==
===Suffix===
# Suffix for singular definite form of ''common'' nouns, especially those ending with a vowel. See also ''[[-en]], [[-an]]''
[[eo:-n]]
{{Universala Vortaro}}
[[Category:Finnish suffixes]]
[[Category:Esperanto suffixes]]
[[Category:Swedish suffixes]]