==English==
===Suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form [[regular plural]]s of nouns.
#:''computers''
#Used to form the [[third-person]] [[singular]] [[indicative]] [[present tense]] of verbs.
#:''eats''

----
==Finnish==
===Case suffix===
'''-s'''

# (''colloquial or dialectal'') Used to form the [[inessive]] case.

===Nominal suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form [[ordinal]] numbers from [[cardinal]] numbers, or ordinal pronouns.
#:''[[mones#Finnish|mones]]''

====Usage notes====
*The ordinal suffix is appended to the [[genitive]] singular stem of the numeral or other word.
*It has the form '''-s''' only in the [[nominative]] singular. The suffix has [[strong vowel stem]] '''-nte-''', [[weak vowel stem]] '''-nne-''', [[partitive]] singular stem '''-t-''' and plural stem '''-nsi-'''. For example, the genitive singular of '''viisi''' "5" is '''viiden''', whence the genitive singular stem '''viide-''':

<table border="1">
<tr><th>case</th><th>form</th></tr>
<tr><td>nominative singular</td><td>viide'''s'''</td></tr>
<tr><td>genitive singular  </td><td>viide'''nne'''n</td></tr>
<tr><td>partitive singular </td><td>viide'''t'''tä</td></tr>
<tr><td>essive singular    </td><td>viide'''nte'''nä</td></tr>
<tr><td>genitive plural    </td><td>viide'''nsi'''en</td></tr>
<tr><td>partitive plural   </td><td>viide'''nsi'''ä</td></tr>
</table>

===Verbal suffix===
'''-s'''

# When appended to second person singular or plural imperative, gives the command or request slightly rude or impatient tone.
#: ''Kuulkaas nyt!'' "Now, listen (''plural or polite'') to me!"

----
==French==
===Suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form the regular plural of nouns.
#:''hommes''

===See also===
*[[-x]]

----
==Swedish==
===Suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form the [[genitive]] case of nouns.
#Used to form the [[passive]] of verbs.