[[de:A]][[es:a]][[et:A]][[fi:a]][[fr:A]][[hu:a]][[nl:a]][[pl:a]][[simple:A]][[th:a]]
==Translingual==
===Symbol===
'''A'''

#A (''ampere'')

===Symbol===
'''a'''

#a (''are, unit of area'')
#a (''atto-'')

----

=={{en}}==

===Noun===
'''A'''
====Pronunciation====
Named /eɪ/, /<tt>eI</tt>/ in the English, and most commonly /ɑː/, /A:/ or /a/ in other languages. The current pronunciation is a comparatively modern sound, and has taken the place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, was similar to that in other languages.

# The first letter of the alphabet. (''See [[appendix:English alphabet]]'')
#: ''Apple starts with A.''
# The highest rank on any of various scales which assign letters.
#: ''We assign each item inspected a rating from A through G depending on various factors.''
# (''education'') The highest [[letter grade]] assigned (disregarding plusses and minuses).
#: ''I was so happy to get an A on that test.''
# (''music'') A tone three-fifths above C in the [[cycle of fifths]]; the sixth tone of the C major scale.
#: ''Orchestras traditionally tune to a [[concert A]].''
#A [[blood type]] that has a specific antigen that aggravates the immune response in people with type [[B]] antigen in their blood. They may receive blood from type A or type [[O]], but cannot receive blood from [[AB]] or [[B]].
#: ''My blood type is A negative.''
# (''computing'') The number 10 in the [[hexadecimal]] system. (''Generally capitalized.'')
#: ''The value is hexadecimal A0, or decimal 160.''

====Related Terms====

=====Letter of the Alphabet=====
*[[A frame]]
*[[ABC]], [[A.B.C.]] <!-- also in the plural -->
*[[A to Z]]

=====Rank or Size=====
*[[AA]]
*[[double A]]
*[[AAA]]
*[[triple A]] <!-- Can anyone speak to "treble A"? -->
*[[A cup]]
*[[A game]]
*[[A levels]]
*[[A list]]
*[[A team]]
*[[grade A]]

=====Letter Grade=====
*[[straight A's]]
*[[A minus]]
*[[A plus]]

=====Music=====
*[[A-flat]]
*[[A major]]
*[[A minor]]
*[[A-sharp]]
*[[concert A]]

=====Blood Type=====
*[[A positive]]
*[[A negative]]

=====Other=====
*[[A-bomb]]

===[[Indefinite article]]===
'''a'''

# Variant of [[an]].

====Usage Note====

The forms ''a'' and ''an'' alternate depending on the word following.  See [[an]] for a full list of examples.

===Preposition===
'''a'''

====Etymology====
Abbreviated form of ''[[an]]'' (Anglo-Saxon ''on''). See [[On]].
#''(Obsolete):'' In; on; at; by.
#:''A God's name.''
#:''Torn a pieces.''
#:''Stand a tiptoe.''
#:''A Sundays'' — Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, IV-v''. 
#:''Wit that men have now a days.'' — [[w:Chaucer|Chaucer]].
# (''Obsolete'') In the process of; in the act of; into; to. Used with verbal substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a shortened form of the preposition '''an''' (which was used before a vowel sound). May or may not be hyphenated.
#:''Jacob, when he was a dying'' — KJB, ''Hebrews 11-21''.
#:''It was a doing.'' — Shakespeare.

====Etymology====
From Anglo-Saxon "of", "off", "from". See [[of]].

#''(Obsolete):'' Of.
#: ''The name of John a Gaunt.''
#: ''What time a day is it?'' — Shakespeare, ''1 Henry IV, I-ii''.
#: ''It's six a clock.'' — [[B. Jonson]].

===Verb===
'''a'''

# (''obsolete'') Contraction of "have". Survives in colloquial [[woulda]], [[shoulda]], etc.
#: ''So would I a done.''

===Pronoun===
'''a'''

# (''obsolete'') Contraction of "he", and sometimes of "it" and of "they".
#: ''a' brushes his hat o' mornings.'' — Shakespeare, ''Much Ado About Nothing, III-ii''

===Expletive===
'''a'''

# A meaningless syllable used to fill up the meter in verse.
#: ''A merry heart goes all the day / Your sad tires in a mile-a'' — Shakespeare, ''The Winter's Tale, IV-iii''
#: ''I love to sing-a / About the moon-a and the June-a and the Spring-a.'' — Avery, ''I Love to Singa''

===Abbreviation===
'''A'''
# [[ampere]] in the [[International System of Units]].
# Vehicle-distinguishing sign for [[Austria]].
# Webster 1913 abbreviation for ''Adjective''.

'''a'''
#[[year]] in the [[International System of Units]]

===Prefix===
See [[a-]] for these usages.

===See also===
*[[alphabet]]
*[[nowadays]]
*[[coulda]]
*[[shoulda]]
*[[woulda]]

*[[w:a|Wikipedia article on ''a'']]

===Translations===
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Afrikaans: [['n]]
*Arabic: ''not used''
*[[Aragonese]]: [[un]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f''
*[[Breton]]: [[un]] ''before the letters n, d, t and h''; [[ul]] ''before the letter l''; [[ur]] ''before other letters''
*[[Catalan]]: [[un]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[一]] (yī), [[一个]] (yīgè)
*Czech: ''not used''
*Danish: [[en#Danish|en]] ''c'', [[et#Danish|et]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[een]]
*[[Esperanto]]: ''not used''
*{{fj}}: [[e dua na]]
*Finnish: ''not used''
*French: [[un]], [[une]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[in#Frisian|in]]
*[[Georgian]]: ''not used''
*German: [[ein]], [[eine]]
*Greek, Modern: [[ένας]] (énas) ''m'', [[μία]] (mía) ''f'', [[ένα]] (éna) ''n''
*Hebrew: ''not used''
*[[Huave]]: [[nop]]
*Hungarian: [[egy]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Interlingua]]: [[un]]
*Italian: [[un]] ''m'', [[uno]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f'', [[un']] ''f''
*Japanese: ''not used''
*Korean: ''not used''
*Kurdish: [[yek]], [[-ek]], [[-yek]]
*[[Lingua Franca Nova]]: [[un]]
*Lithuanian: ''not used''
*Norwegian: [[en#Norwegian|en]] ''c'', [[ett]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[um]] ''m'', [[uma]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[un]] ''m'', [[o#Romanian|o]] ''f''
*Russian: ''not used''
*Spanish: [[un]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[en]] ''c'', [[ett]] ''n''
*Thai: [[หนึ่ง]] (nèùng)
*Turkish: [[bir]] <!--what does this mean? "Küçük bir kebap, lütfen!" = "A small kebab, please!"-->
*Vietnamese: [[cái]] (''for inanimate objects''), [[con]] (''for animals, people, etc.''), [[cuốn]] (''for books, etc.''), [[người]] (''for people''), [[quả]] (''for fruit')
*[[Võro]]: ''not used''
|}
|}

[[Category:English articles]]
----

==Aragonese==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[illa]]''.

===Definite article===
'''a''' ''f/sg''

#[[the]]
#:''A luenga aragonesa'' = "The Aragonese language"

[[Category:Aragonese language]]
----
==Czech==
===Conjunction===
'''a'''
#[[and]]

[[Category:Czech language]]
----
==French==
===Noun===
'''A'''

#A (''first letter of the alphabet'')

====Derived phrases====
*[[bombe A]]
*[[prouver par A plus B]], prouver par A + B

===Verb form===
'''a'''

# (''third-person singular indicative present of [[avoir]]'') [[has]]

===See also===
*[[à]]

[[Category:French language]]
----
==Hungarian==
===Definite article===
'''a'''

# [[the]]

====Related terms====
*[[az]]

[[Category:Hungarian language]]
----
==Irish==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[ə]}}
===Particle===
#Vocative (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''A Dhia!'' = "O God!"
#:''A dhuine uasail'' = "Sir"
#:''Tar isteach, a Sheáin'' = "Come in, Seán"
#:''A amadáin!'' = "You fool!"
#Numeral (attaches ''h'' to a vowel)
#:''A haon, a dó, a trí...'' = "One, two, three..."
#:''Séamas a Dó'' = "James the Second"
#:''Bus a seacht'' = "The number seven bus"
#Direct relative (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''An fear a chuireann síol'' = "The man who sows seed"
#:''An síol a chuireann an fear'' = "The seed that the man sows"
#:''Nuair a éirím'' = "When I rise"
#Indirect relative (triggers [[eclipsis]])
#:''An bord a bhfuil leabhar air'' = "The table on which there is a book"
#:''An fear a bhfuil a mac ag imeacht'' = "The man whose son is going away"
#[[how]], used with an abstract noun (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''A ghéire a labhair sí'' = "How sharply she spoke"
#:''A fheabhas atá sé'' = "How good it is"

===Preposition===
#[[to]], used with a verbal noun (triggers [[lenition]])
::''Síol a chur'' = "To sow seed"
::''Uisce a ól'' = "To drink water"
::''An rud atá sé a scríobh'' = "What he is writing"
::''D'éirigh sé a chaint'' = "He rose to speak"
::''Téigh a chodladh'' = "Go to sleep"

===Pronoun===
#[[his]], [[its]] (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''A athair agus a mháthair'' = "His father and mother"
#:''Chaill an t-éan a chleití'' = "The bird lost its feathers"
#[[her]], [[its]] (attaches ''h'' to a vowel)
#:''A hathair agus a máthair'' = "Her father and mother"
#:''Thréig an chaora a eiteog'' = "The sheep left its flock"
#[[their]] (triggers [[eclipsis]])
#:''a dtithe'' = "their houses"
#:''a n-ainmneacha'' = "their names"
#[[all]] [[that]], [[whatever]]
#:''Sin a bhfuil ann'' = "That's all that is there"
#:''An bhfuair tú a raibh uait?'' = "Did you get all that you wanted?"
#:''Íocfaidh mé as a gceannóidh tú'' = "I will pay for whatever you buy"
[[Category:Irish language]]

----

==Italian==
===Preposition===
'''a'''

#[[in]]
#[[at]]
#[[to]]
#''Indicates the direct object, mainly to avoid confusion when it, the subject, or both are displaced.''
#:''A me non importa.'' = "It doesn't matter to me." (literally, "To me it doesn't matter.")

====Combined forms====
''When followed by a definite article'', '''a''' ''is combined with the article to give the following combined forms'':

<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="5">
<tr><th>A + article<th>Combined form</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[il#Italian|il]]<td align="center">[[al#Italian|al]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[lo#Italian|lo]]<td align="center">[[allo]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[l'#Italian|l']]<td align="center">[[all']]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[i#Italian|i]]<td align="center">[[ai]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[gli]]<td align="center">[[agli]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[la#Italian|la]]<td align="center">[[alla]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[le#Italian|le]]<td align="center">[[alle]]</tr>
</table>

[[Category:Italian language]]
----

==Latin==
===Preposition===
'''a''' (''also '''[[ab]]''')

#[[of]], [[from]]
#:"Thomas a Becket"

====Usage note====
Takes object in [[ablative]] case.

===Abbreviation===
#a (''[[annus]]'', year)
#a (''[[ante]]'', before)
#[[Aulus]] (a name)
#[[absolvo]], "I free," "I acquit"
#[[antiquo]], "I leave in its former state," "I reject"

[[Category:Latin language]]
----
=={{pt}}==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[illa]]''

===Definite article===
'''a''' ''f/sg''

#[[the]]
#:''Lá vem a chuva.'' = "Here comes the rain."

<table border="1">
<tr><th></th><th>masculine</th><th>feminine</th></tr>
<tr><th>singular</th><td>[[o]]</td><td>a</td></tr>
<tr><th>plural</th><td>[[os]]</td><td>[[as]]</td></tr>
</table>

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[ad]]''

===Preposition===
'''a'''

#[[to]]
#:''Vamos a Paris!'' = "Let's go to Paris!"
#[[at]]
#:''Onde vai ele a esta hora da noite'' = "Where is he going at this time of night?"
#''Indicates the direct object, mainly to avoid confusion when it, the subject, or both are displaced.''
#:''A mim ele não engana.'' = "He doesn't deceive me." (literally, "To me he doesn't deceive.")

====Combined forms====
''When followed by a definite article'', '''a''' ''is combined with the article to give the following combined forms'':

<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="5">
<tr><th>A + article<th>Combined form</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[o#Portuguese|o]]<td align="center">[[ao]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[os#Portuguese|os]]<td align="center">[[aos]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + a<td align="center">[[à]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[as#Portuguese|as]]<td align="center">[[às]]</tr>
</table>

===Personal pronoun, ''3rd person'' ''f/sg''===
From Latin [[illa]].
#[[Her]], [[it]] (as a direct object; as an indirect object, see [[lhe]]; after prepositions, see [[ela]]).
#:''Encontrei-a na rua.'' = "I met her/it on the street."

====Usage notes====
*Becomes -[[la]] after verb forms ending in ''-r, -s'', or ''-z'', the pronouns [[nos]] and [[vos]], and the adverb [[eis]]; the final letter causing the change disappears.
*:After [[ver]]: ''Posso vê-la?'' = "May I see her/it?"
*:After [[por|pôs]]: ''Quero pô-la ali.'' = "I want to put her/it there."
*:After [[fazer|fiz]]: ''Fi-la ficar contente.'' = "I made her/it happy."
*:After [[nos]]: ''Deu-no-la relutantemente.'' = "He gave her/it to us reluctantly."
*:After [[eis]]: ''Ei-la!'' = "Behold her/it!"
*Becomes -[[na]] after a nasal diphthong: ''-ão, -am'' [ɐ̃w̃], ''-õe'' [õj], ''-em, -êm'' [ẽj].
*:''Detêm-na como prisioneira.'' = "They detain her/it as a prisoner."
*In Brasil it is being abandoned in favor of the nominative form [[ela]].
*:''Eu a vi.'' → ''Eu vi ela.'' = "I saw her/it."

===See also===
*[[em]]
*[[para]]

[[Category:Portuguese language]]
----
=={{sk}}==

=== Conjunction ===
'''a'''
#[[and]]

[[Category:Slovak language]]
----
=={{es}}==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[SAMPA]]: /a/
*[[IPA]]: /a/

=== Preposition ===
'''a'''

#[[to]]
#[[by]]
#[[at]]
#''Used before words referring to people, pets, or personified objects or places that function as direct objects. This word is not translated in English; for example:'' "Lo busca '''a''' Usted" = "He is looking for you."

[[Category:Spanish language]]
----
<!--Headword should be in Thai; entry should be in English
==Thai==
'''a'''

# อักษรตัวแรกของภาษาอังกฤษ = "First letter of the English alphabet."
# indefinite article (หนึ่ง = "a", "one").
----
-->

==Vietnamese==
*''Letter of the Vietnamese alphabet:'' '''A'''

**'''Next letter:''' [[Ă]]

=== Interjection ===
'''A!'''

#[[hah]]!

[[Category:Vietnamese language]]

==Quenya==
===Voactive particle===
#[[O]]
===Conjunction===
#[[and]]]
===Imperative particle===