==English==

===Pronunciation===
* ä'ä, /ˈɑːɑː/, /"A:A:/

===Noun===
'''aa'''

# A type of [[basaltic]] [[rock]], usually dark-colored with a jagged surface, formed in large sheets from slow-moving [[lava]]. It is one of two chief forms of rock emitted from [[volcano]]es of the Hawaiian type, the other being [[pahoehoe]].
#: '''Quotations
#:* '''1859''' - R. C. Haskell in ''American journal of science and arts'', series XXVIII
#:*: We...saw 'pahoihoi' or solid lava forming, and also 'aa' or clinkers.
#:* '''1883''' - Clarence E. Dutton in the fourth ''Annual report'' of the United States Geological Survey
#:*: The second form of the lavas is called by the natives a-a, and its contrast with pahoehoe is about the greatest imaginable. It consists mainly of clinkers sometimes detached, sometimes partially agglutinated together with a bristling array of sharp, jagged, angular fragments.
#:* '''1944''' - Charles A. Cotton: ''Volcanoes as landscape forms''
#:*: Cooling and solidification frequently takes a different course...in lava flows, producing the clinker-like 'aa' lava.


====Etymology====
Hawaiian [[ʻaʻā]]

====Translations====
*Estonian: [[aa-laava]]
*[[Hawaiian]]: [[ʻaʻā]]

===Abbreviation===
'''aa'''
# (''Pharm.'') short term for (''lat.'') ana [partes aequales] = the same quantity of each

'''AA'''
# size of a [[battery]] ("double A")
# [[Alcoholics Anonymous]] (''also A.A.'') 
# [[Associate of Arts|Associate of (or in) Arts]]
# [[antiaircraft]] (''also A.A., A-A, and A.-A.'')
# [[Automobile Association]] (''Brit.'')
# ''A-A'': analog-analog (''electronics & telecommunication'')

----

==Estonian==

===Interjection===
'''aa'''

#Expresses recognition. ''Aa, see oled sina.'' Oh, it's you.
#Expresses understanding. ''Aa, saan aru.'' Oh, I understand.

[[et:Aa]]

----

==German==

===Abbreviation===
'''AA'''
# size of a [[battery]] ("double A")
# [[Anonyme Alkoholiker]] (similar to Alcoholics Anonymous, ''also A.A.'')
# [[Auswärtiges Amt]] (Foreign Office)
# ''A-A'': analog-analog (''electronics & telecommunication'')