'''Abandoned''', ''[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]''

<ol>
<li>[[Forsaken]], deserted.

<code>Your ''abandoned'' streams.</code> ''[[Thomson (source)|Thomson]].''

<li> [[Self-abandoned]], or given up to vice; [[extremely]] wicked, or [[sinning]] without restraint; [[irreclaimably]] wicked ; as, an ''abandoned'' [[villain]].

'''Synonyms:''' -- [[Profligate]]; [[dissolute]]; corrupt; [[vicious]]; [[depraved]]; [[reprobate]]; wicked; [[unprincipled]]; [[graceless]]; vile. -- [[Profligate]], [[Reprobate]]. These adjectives agree in expressing the idea of great personal [[depravity]]. [[Profligate]] has reference to open and [[shameless]] [[immoralities]], either in private life or political conduct; as, a [[profligate]] court, a [[profligate]] [[ministry]]. Abandoned is [[stronger]], and has reference to the [[searing]] of [[conscience]] and [[hardening]] of heart produced by a man's giving himself wholly up to [[iniquity]]; as, a man of abandoned character. [[Reprobate]] [[describes]] the condition of one who has become [[insensible]] to [[reproof]], and who is [[morally]] abandoned and lost beyond hope of [[recovery]].

<code>God gave them over to a ''reprobate'' mind. ''[[Rom. i. 28. (source)|Rom. i. 28.]]''</code>
</ol>
<H3>Translations</H3>
<BR>• [[French]]: [[abandonné]]
<BR>• [[German]]: [[verlassen]]
<BR>• [[Interlingua]]: [[abandonate]]
<BR>• [[Italian]]: [[abbandonato]]
<BR>• [[Portuguese]]: [[abandonado]]
<BR>• [[Spanish]]: [[abandonado]]
<BR>• [[Dutch]]: [[verlaten]]