==English==

===Etymology===

From Old French '''abandoner''' (to surrender), composed of '''à''' (at, to) + '''bandon''' (power, jurisdiction) as used in the phrase '''mettre à bandon''' (to give up to a public ban) < Late Latin '''[[bannum]]''' (proclamation) < Frankish '''*ban''' < Proto-Germanic '''[[*bannan]]''' (to proclaim, command, forbid) < Proto-Indo-European base '''[[*bha- ]]''' (to speak); compare Gothic ''"bandwjan"'' (to show by signs, to designate), Old High German ''"ban"'' (proclamation), Old High German ''"bannan"'' (to command or forbid under threat of punishment), Old Irish ''"bann"'' (law). See [[ban]].

----

=== Transitive verb ===
Imperfect and past participle: [[Abandoned]] /-dŭnd/ <br>
Present participle: [[Abandoning]] 

#''(Obsolete):'' To cast or drive out; to [[banish]]; to [[expel]]; to reject.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That he might ... ''abandon'' them from him. — [[Udall.]]
#:*Being all this time ''abandoned'' from your bed. — Shakespeare, ''The Taming of the Shrew, I-ii''
#To give up [[absolutely]]; to [[forsake]] entirely ; to renounce [[utterly]]; to relinquish all connection with or [[concern]] on; to desert, as a person to whom one owes [[allegiance]] or [[fidelity]]; to quit; to surrender.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Hope was overthrown, yet could not be ''abandoned''. — [[I. Taylor.]]
#''[[Reflexively]]:'' To give (one's self) up without attempt at [[self-control]]; to yield (one's self) [[unrestrainedly]]; — often in a bad sense.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He ''abandoned'' himself ... to his favorite vice. — [[Macaulay.]]
#''(Maritime Law):'' To relinquish all claim to; — used when an [[insured]] person gives up to [[underwriters]] all claim to the property covered by a policy that may remain after loss or damage by a [[peril]] insured against.

====Derived expressions====
*'''the enterprise had to be abandoned'''
*:'''Translations'''
*[[Catalan]]: van haver de renunciar a l'empresa

====Synonyms====
*To give up; yield; [[forego]]; cede; surrender; [[resign]]; [[abdicate]]; quit; relinquish; renounce; desert; [[forsake]]; leave; retire; withdraw from.
*To abandon, [[desert]], [[forsake]]. These words agree in representing a person as ''giving up'' or ''leaving'' some object, but [[differ]] as to the mode of doing it. The [[distinctive]] sense of abandon is that of giving up a thing absolutely and [[finally]]; as, to abandon one's friends, places, opinions, good or evil habits, a [[hopeless]] enterprise, a [[shipwrecked]] vessel.
*''Abandon'' is more widely [[applicable]] than ''forsake'' or ''desert''. The Latin original of ''desert'' appears to have been originally applied to the case of [[deserter]]s from military service. Hence, the verb, when used of ''persons'' in the active voice, has usually or always a bad sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of something which the person should rightfully stand by and support; as, to ''desert'' one's colors, to ''desert'' one's post, to ''desert'' one's principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not necessarily bad; as, the fields were ''deserted'', a ''deserted'' village, ''deserted'' halls.
*''Forsake'' implies the breaking off of previous habit, association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to ''forsake'' the paths of [[rectitude]], the blood ''forsook'' his cheeks. It may be used either in a good or in a bad sense.

====Translations====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: [[ترك|تَرَكَ]] (táraka)
*Bulgarian: [[изоставям]] (izostavjam), [[напускам]] (napuskam)
*Catalan: [[abandonar]], [[desemparar]]
*Chinese: [[放弃]] (líqì)
*Dutch: [[verlaten]]
*Esperanto: [[forlasi|eo.wiktionary.org/wiki/forlasi]]
*Finnish: [[jättää]], [[hylätä]]
*French: [[abandonner]]
*German: [[verlassen]]
*Greek: [[εγκαταλείπω]] (engkataleípo)
*Norwegian: [[yfirgefa]]
*[[Ido]]: [[abandonar]]
*Indonesian: [[biar|membiarkan]], [[telantar|menelantarkan]], [[abai|mengabaikan]]
*Interlingua: [[abandonar]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Irish: [[tréig]]
*Italian: [[abbandonare]]
*Japanese: [[放置]]する ([[ほうち]]する, hōchi-surú), [[放っておく]] ([[ほうっておく]], hōtte-oku), [[ほったらかす]] (hottarakasu)
*Korean: [[버리다]] (boerida)
*Latin: [[relinquere]]
*Norwegian: [[oppgi]], [[forlate]]
*Polish: [[opuszczać]]
*Portuguese: [[abandonar]]
*Russian: [[покидать]] / [[покинуть]] (pokidát' / pokínut')
*Spanish: [[abandonar]]
*Swedish: [[överge]]
*Volapük: [[klemön]], [[lüvön]]
|}
|}

=== Noun ===
#''(Obsolete):'' [[Abandonment]]; [[relinquishment]].
#A complete giving up to natural [[impulses]]; freedom from artificial [[constraint]]; careless freedom or ease.

'''Translations'''
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Bulgarian: [[изоставяне]] (izostavjane) ''n'', [[напускане]] (napuskane) ''n''
*Chinese: [[放肆]] (lísì)
*Dutch: [[verlatenheid]] ''f'', [[ongedwongenheid]] ''f''
*Esperanto: [[forlaso]]
*French: [[abandon#French|abandon]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*German: [[Ungezwungenheit]] ''f''
*Interlingua: [[abandono]]
*Italian: [[abbandono]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[abandono]] ''m'' 
*Spanish: [[abandono]] ''m''
*Volapük: [[klem]], [[lüv]]
|}
|}

[[de:abandon]]
[[fr:abandon]]
[[it:abandon]]
[[he:Abandon]]
[[ru:Abandon]]