'''Abase''', ''[[transitive verb (part of speech)|transitive verb]]'' [''[[imp. (part of speech)|imp.]] & [[past participle (part of speech)|past participle]]'' [[Abased]] ([[&adot]];*[[b&amacr;st]]"); ''[[present participle (part of speech)|present participle]] & [[vb. n. (part of speech)|vb. n.]]'' [[Abasing]].] [F. ''abaisser'', LL. ''abassare'', ''abbassare'' ; ''ad'' + ''bassare'', fr. ''bassus'' low. See [[Base]], ''[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]'']

<ol>
<li>To lower or [[depress]]; to throw or cast down; as, to ''abase'' the eye. [Archaic] ''[[Bacon. (source)|Bacon.]]''

<code>Saying so, he ''abased'' his lance. ''[[Shelton. (source)|Shelton.]]''</code>

<li> To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or [[estimation]] of [[worthiness]]; to depress; to humble; to [[degrade]].

<code>Whosoever exalteth himself shall be ''abased''. ''[[Luke xiv. ll. (source)|Luke xiv. ll.]]''</code>

'''Synonyms:''' -- [[Debase]], [[Degrade]]. These words agree in the idea of bringing down from a higher to a lower state. ''Abase'' has reference to a bringing down in condition or feelings; as, to ''abase'' the proud, to ''abase'' one's self before God. ''Debase'' has reference to the bringing down of a thing in [[purity]], or ''making it base''. It is, therefore, always used in a bad sense, as, to ''debase'' the coin of the kingdom, to ''debase'' the mind by [[vicious]] [[indulgence]], to ''debase'' one's style by coarse or vulgar expressions. ''Degrade'' has reference to a bringing down from some higher ''grade'' or from some standard. Thus, a priest is ''degraded'' from the [[clerical]] office. When used in a moral sense, it denotes a bringing down in character and just [[estimation]]; as, ''degraded'' by [[intemperance]], a ''degrading'' employment, etc. "Art is ''degraded'' when it is regarded only as a trade."
</ol>