===Etymology===
Old English ''abaissen'', ''abaisshen'', ''abashen'', Old French ''esbahir'', French ''ébahir'', to [[astonish]], from Latin ''ex'' + the [[interjection]] ''bah'', expressing [[astonishment]]. In Old English somewhat [[confuse]]d with ''abase''. Cf. [[Finish]].
===Transitive verb===
<table border = 1>
<tr>
<th align = center>
Imperfect
<th align = center>
Past Participle
<th align = center>
Present Participle
</tr>
<tr>
<td>abashed </td>
<td>abashed </td>
<td>abashing </td>
</tr>
</table>
#To destroy the [[self-possession]] of; to confuse or [[confound]], as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, [[mistake]], or [[inferiority]]; to put to shame; to [[disconcert]]; to [[discomfit]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*''Abashed'', the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. - [[Milton]].
#:*He was a man whom no check could ''abash''. - [[Macaulay]].
===Synonyms===
*To [[confuse]]; [[confound]]; disconcert; shame. 
*To Abash, [[Confuse]], [[Confound]]. ''Abash'' is a [[stronger]] word than ''confuse'', but not so strong as ''confound''. 
*We are ''abashed'' when struck either with sudden shame or with a [[humbling]] sense of inferiority; as, [[Peter]] was ''abashed'' by the look of his Master. So a [[modest]] youth is ''abashed'' in the presence of those who are greatly his superiors. 
*We are ''confused'' when, from some [[unexpected]] or [[startling]] [[occurrence]], we lose [[clearness]] of thought and self- possession. Thus, a witness is often ''confused'' by a severe [[cross-]] examination; a [[timid]] person is apt to be ''confused'' in [[entering]] a room full of [[strangers]].
*We are ''confounded'' when our minds are [[overwhelmed]], as it were, by something wholly unexpected, [[amazing]], dreadful, etc., so that we have nothing to say. Thus, a criminal is usually ''confounded'' at the [[discovery]] of his guilt.
:'''Quotations'''
:*Satan stood Awhile as mute, ''confounded'' what to say. - [[Milton]].

<HR> <P> <H3>Translations</H3><BR>•[[French]] fr: [[Confonder]]<BR>•[[German]] de: [[Beschämen Sich]]<BR>•[[Interlingua]] ia: [[Confunder]]<BR>•[[Italian]] it: [[]]<BR>•[[Portuguese]] pt: [[]]<BR>•[[Spanish]] es: [[]]<BR>•[[Confundir]]: [[]]

Abashed <P><H2>[[Adjective]] / [[Past Participle]]</H2> <BR>•[[French]] fr: [[Confondu]]<BR>•[[German]] de: [[Beschämt]]<BR>•[[Interlingua]] ia: [[Confundite]], [[Disconcertate]]<BR>•[[Italian]] it: [[]]<BR>•[[Portuguese]] pt: [[Confundido]]<BR>•[[Spanish]] es: [[Confundido]]<BR>•[[]]: [[]]