'''Abbreviate''', ''[[transitive verb (part of speech)|transitive verb]]'' [''[[imp. (part of speech)|imp.]] & [[past participle (part of speech)|past participle]]'' [[Abbreviated]] (&?;); ''[[present participle (part of speech)|present participle]] & [[vb. n. (part of speech)|vb. n.]]'' [[Abbreviating]].] [L. ''abbreviatus'', p. p. of ''abbreviare''; ''ad'' + ''breviare'' to [[shorten]], fr. ''brevis'' short. See [[Abridge]].]

<ol>
<li>To make [[briefer]]; to [[shorten]]; to [[abridge]]; to reduce by contraction or [[omission]], especially of words written or spoken.

<code>It is one thing to ''abbreviate'' by contracting, another by cutting off. ''[[Bacon (source)|Bacon]].''</code>

<li> ''([[Math (subject)|Math]]).'' To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.
</ol>
==Translations==
-----
'''Abbreviate''', ''[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]'' [L. ''abbreviatus'', p. p.]

<ol>
<li>[[Abbreviated]]; [[abridged]]; [[shortened]]. [R.]

<code>The ''abbreviate'' form.</code> ''[[Earle (source)|Earle]].''

<li> ''([[Biol (subject)|Biol]]).'' Having one part relatively [[shorter]] than another or than the ordinary type.
</ol>
-----
'''Abbreviate''', ''[[noun (part of speech)|noun]]''

An [[abridgment]]. [Obs.] ''[[Elyot (source)|Elyot]].''

<HR> <P> <H3>Translations</H3><BR>•[[French]] fr: [[Abréger]]<BR>•[[German]] de: [[Kürzen Sie ab]]<BR>•[[Interlingua]] ia: [[Abbreviar]]<BR>•[[Italian]] it: [[Abbreviare]]<BR>•[[Portuguese]] pt: [[Abreviar]]<BR>•[[Spanish]] es: [[Abreviar]]<BR>•[[Swedish]] sv: [[förkorta]] (1,2)<BR>
•[[]]: [[]]