==English==
==={{Initialism}}===
'''ABC'''
#Australian Broadcasting Corporation.
#American Broadcasting Company.
#(''Japan'') Asahi Broadcasting Corporation.
#Alcoholic Beverage Control. 
#(''of [[chewing gum]]'') [[Already]] [[been]] [[chew]]ed.
#(''Business Management'') [[w:Activity-based costing|Activity-Based Costing]]


===Etymology===
The first three letters of the Latin alphabet, standing for the whole alphabet

===Noun===
'''ABC''' (''plural'' '''ABCs''')

#(''US also'' '''ABCs'''; ''uncountable'') The [[alphabet]].
#:''Do you know your ABCs?'' 
#(''obsolete'') A primer for teaching the [[Latin alphabet]] and first elements of reading. 
#(''not used in the plural'') The simplest rudiments of any subject.
#:''the '''ABC''' of finance''

====Synonyms====
*(''rudiments''): [[basic]]s, [[fundamental]]s, [[rudiment]]s

====Translations====

'''alphabet'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[alphabet#French|alphabet]] ''m''
*Italian: [[alfabeto]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Norwegian: [[abc]], [[alfabet]] ''n''
* {{lt}}: abecelė
|}
|}

'''obsolete: primer for learning the alphabet'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''rudiments'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[abc]] ''m invariable''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Latin: [[abecedaria]] ''f'' (3)

===Derived expressions===
*'''[[ABC book]]'''<!-- a primer. Shakespeare, ''King John, I-i'', as an "absey" book-->

[[it:ABC]]