'''Abet''', ''[[transitive verb (part of speech)|transitive verb]]'' [''[[imp. (part of speech)|imp.]] & [[past participle (part of speech)|past participle]]'' [[Abetted]] (&?;); ''[[present participle (part of speech)|present participle]] & [[vb. n. (part of speech)|vb. n.]]'' [[Abetting]].] [OF. ''abeter''; ''a'' (L. ''ad'') + ''beter'' to bait (as a bear), fr. Icel. ''beita'' to set dogs on, to feed, originally, to cause to bite, fr. Icel. ''b&imacr;ta'' to bite, hence to bait, to [[incite]]. See [[Bait]], [[Bet]].]

<ol>
<li>To [[instigate]] or [[encourage]] by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to ''abet'' an [[ill-doer]]; to ''abet'' one in his wicked courses; to ''abet'' vice; to ''abet'' an [[insurrection]].

<code>The whole tribe ''abets'' the villany.</code> ''[[South (source)|South]].''

<code>Would not the fool ''abet'' the stealth, Who rashly thus exposed his wealth? ''[[Gay (source)|Gay]].''</code>

<li> To support, [[uphold]], or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense. [Obs.].

<code>Our duty is urged, and our confidence ''abetted''. ''[[Jer. Taylor (source)|Jer. Taylor]].''</code>

<li> ''(Law)'' To [[contribute]], as an [[assistant]] or [[instigator]], to the commission of an offense.

'''Synonyms:''' -- To [[incite]]; [[instigate]]; set on; egg on; [[foment]]; advocate; countenance; [[encourage]]; second; [[uphold]]; aid; assist; support; [[sustain]]; back; [[connive]] at.
</ol>
-----
'''Abet''', ''[[noun (part of speech)|noun]]'' [OF. ''abet'', fr. ''abeter''.]

Act of [[abetting]]; aid. [Obs.] ''[[Chaucer (source)|Chaucer]].''