'''Abhor''', ''[[transitive verb (part of speech)|transitive verb]]'' [''[[imp. (part of speech)|imp.]] & [[past participle (part of speech)|past participle]]'' [[Abhorred]] (&?;); ''[[present participle (part of speech)|present participle]] & [[vb. n. (part of speech)|vb. n.]]'' [[Abhorring]].] [L. ''abhorrere''; ''ab'' + ''horrere'' to bristle, [[shiver]], [[shudder]]: cf. F. ''abhorrer''. See [[Horrid]].]

<ol>
<li>To [[shrink]] back with [[shuddering]] from; to regard with horror or [[detest]]ation]]; to feel excessive [[repugnance]] toward; to detest to extremity; to [[loathe]].

<code>''Abhor'' that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. ''[[Rom. xii. 9 (source)|Rom. xii. 9]].''</code>

<li> To fill with horror or [[disgust]]. [Obs.]

<code>It doth ''abhor'' me now I speak the word. ''[[Shakespeare (source)|Shakespeare]].''</code>

<li> ''(Canon Law)'' To [[protest]] against; to reject [[solemnly]]. [Obs.]

<code>I utterly ''abhor'', yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. ''[[Shakespeare (source)|Shakespeare]].''</code>

'''Synonyms:''' -- To hate; [[detest]]; [[loathe]]; [[abominate]]. See [[Hate]].
</ol>
-----
'''Abhor''', ''[[intransitive verb (part of speech)|intransitive verb]]''

To [[shrink]] back with horror, [[disgust]], or dislike; to be contrary or [[averse]]; -- with ''from''. [Obs.]

<code>To ''abhor'' from those vices.</code> ''[[Udall (source)|Udall]].''

<code>Which is utterly ''abhorring'' from the end of all law. ''[[Milton (source)|Milton]].''</code>