==English==
===Etymology===
Anglo Saxon. ''[[&#257;b&#299;dan]]''; prefix ''[[&#257;-]]'' (compare Gothic ''[[us-]]'', German ''[[er-]]'', originally meaning ''out'') + ''b&#299;dan'' to bide. See ''to [[bide]]''.

===Verb===
'''to abide''' (''Imperfect and past participle:'' '''abode''' or '''abided''', formerly '''abid''', ''Present participle:'' '''abiding''')
#''(intransitive)'' (''obsolete'') To wait; to [[pause]]; to delay - [[Chaucer]]
#''(intransitive)'' To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to [[sojourn]]; -- with ''with'' before a person, and commonly with ''at'' or ''in'' before a place
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Let the damsel '''abide''' with us a few days -  ''Genesis 24:55''
#''(intransitive)'' To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue; to remain.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Let every man '''abide''' in the same calling - ''1 Corinthians 7:20''
#''(transitive)'' (''obsolete with a ''personal'' object'') To wait for; to be prepared for; to [[await]]; to watch for; as, I '''abide''' my time.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I will '''abide''' the coming of my lord - [[Tennyson]]
#:*Bonds and afflictions '''abide''' me - ''Acts 20:23''
#''(transitive)'' To endure; to [[sustain]]; to [[submit]] to.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*[Thou] shalt '''abide''' her judgment on it - [[Tennyson]]
#''(transitive)'' To bear [[patiently]]; to [[tolerate]]; to put up with.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*She could not '''abide''' Master Shallow - Shakespeare, ''Henry IV Part 2, III-ii''
#''(transitive)'' (''Confused with ''[[aby]]'' to pay for'') To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Dearly I '''abide''' that boast so vain - [[Milton]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[verblijven]], (2) [[wonen]] (2), [[tolereren]] (6), [[uitstaan]], (6) (ook in NL?), [[hebben]] (6), [[toelaten]] (6), [[ondergaan]]? (6)
:Hij [[kan]] het [[niet]] [[hebben]], dat ze [[zich]] zo [[gedragen]].
:Hij kan dat [[soort]] [[gedrag]] niet [[uitstaan]].
*French: [[demeurer]] (2), [[tolerer]] (6), [[supporter]] (6)
*German: [[weilen]] (2), [[harren]] (''with genitive'') (4), [[aushalten]] (5), [[ausstehen]] (6)
*Interlingua: [[demorar]]
*Italian: [[rimanere]]
*Norwegian: [[stå]], [[holde fast (ved)]], [[avvente]]
*Spanish: [[habitar]] (2), [[demorar]] (2), [[tolerar]] (6), [[soportar]] (6)

====Derived expression====
*'''To abide by'''. To stand to; to [[adhere]]; to maintain.
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*The poor fellow was obstinate enough '''to abide by''' what he said at first - [[Fielding]]
*:To [[acquiesce]]; to [[conform]] to; as, '''to abide by''' a decision or an [[award]].

[[pt:Abide]]