===Etymology===
French ''[[habileté]]'', earlier spelling ''[[habilité]]'' (with [[silent]] ''h''), Latin ''[[habilitas]]'' [[aptitude]], ability, from ''[[habilis]]'' apt. See [[able]]
===Noun===
Plural: '''Abilities'''
#The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, [[conventional]], or legal; capacity; skill or [[competence]] in doing; [[sufficiency]] of strength, skill, [[resources]], etc.; -- in the ''plural'', faculty, [[talent]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Then the disciples, every man according to his '''ability''', determined to send relief unto the brethren - ''Acts 11:29''
#:*Natural '''abilities''' are like natural plants, that need pruning by study - [[Bacon]]
#:*The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of '''ability''' - [[Macaulay]]
===Synonyms===
*Capacity; [[talent]]; [[cleverness]]; faculty; [[capability]]; [[efficiency]]; [[aptitude]]; [[aptness]]; address; [[dexterity]]; skill. [[Ability]], [[Capacity]]. These words come into comparison when applied to the higher intellectual powers. 
*'''Ability''' has reference to the ''active'' exercise of our [[faculties]]. It implies not only native vigor of mind, but that ease and [[promptitude]] of execution which [[arise]] from mental [[training]]. Thus, we speak of the ''ability'' with which a book is written, an argument maintained, a [[negotiation]] carried on, etc. It always something to be ''done'', and the power of ''doing'' it. 
*'''Capacity''' has reference to the ''receptive'' powers. In its higher exercises it [[suppose]]s great [[quickness]] of apprehension and breadth of intellect, with an [[uncommon]] aptitude for [[acquiring]] and [[retaining]] knowledge. Hence it carries with it the idea of ''resources'' and [[undeveloped]] power. Thus we speak of the extraordinary ''capacity'' of such men as Lord Bacon, [[Blaise]] [[Pascal]], and [[Edmund Burke]]. "''Capacity''," says H. Taylor, "is [[requisite]] to [[devise]], and ''ability'' to [[execute]], a great enterprise." The word ''abilities'', in the plural, [[embraces]] both these qualities, and denotes high mental [[endowments]]
===Translations===
*[[Irish]]: [[ábaltacht]] ''f3'', [[cumas]] ''m1''