'''Able''', ''[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]'' [''[[Comp. (part of speech)|Comp.]]'' [[Abler]] (&?;); ''[[superl. (part of speech)|superl.]]'' [[Ablest]] (&?;).] [OF. ''habile'', L. ''habilis'' that may be easily held or [[managed]], apt, [[skillful]], fr. ''habere'' to have, hold. Cf. [[Habile]] and see [[Habit]].]

<ol>
<li>Fit; adapted; suitable. [Obs.]

<code>A many man, to ben an abbot ''able''. ''[[Chaucer (source)|Chaucer]].''</code>

<li> Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or [[resources]] of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of [[qualifications]] rendering [[competent]] for some end; [[competent]]; [[qualified]]; capable; as, an ''able'' [[workman]], soldier, [[seaman]], a man ''able'' to work; a mind ''able'' to reason; a person ''able'' to be [[generous]]; ''able'' to endure pain; ''able'' to play on a [[piano]].

<li> [[Specially]]: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental powers; showing ability or skill; [[talented]]; [[clever]]; powerful; as, the ''ablest'' man in the [[senate]]; an ''able'' speech.

<code>No man wrote ''abler'' state papers. ''[[Macaulay (source)|Macaulay]].''</code>

<li> ''(Law)'' [[Legally]] qualified; possessed of legal [[competence]]; as, ''able'' to [[inherit]] or [[devise]] property.

'''Able for''', is [[Scotticism]].

<code>Hardly ''able for'' such a march.</code> ''[[Robertson (source)|Robertson]].''

'''Synonyms:''' -- [[Competent]]; qualified; fitted; [[efficient]]; [[effective]]; capable; [[skillful]]; clever; [[vigorous]]; powerful.
</ol>
-----
'''Able''', ''[[transitive verb (part of speech)|transitive verb]]'' [See [[Able]], ''[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]''] [Obs.]

<ol>
<li>To make able; to [[enable]]; to strengthen. ''[[Chaucer (source)|Chaucer]].''

<li> To [[vouch]] for.

<code>I 'll ''able'' them.</code> ''[[Shakespeare (source)|Shakespeare]].''
</ol>