==English==
===Etymology===
Latin ''abortivus'', from ''aboriri''. See [[Abort]], (verb)

===Adjective===
#''(Rare):'' Produced by [[abortion]]; born [[prematurely]]; as, an '''abortive''' child.
#''(Obsolete):'' Made from the skin of a [[still-born]] animal; as, '''abortive''' [[vellum]]. 
#''(Obsolete):'' Rendering [[fruitless]] or [[ineffectual]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Plunged in that '''abortive''' gulf. [[Milton]]
#Coming to [[naught]]; [[failing]] in its effect; [[miscarrying]]; [[fruitless]]; [[unsuccessful]]; as, an '''abortive''' attempt.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*An '''abortive''' enterprise. - [[Prescott]]
#''([[:Category:Jargon:Biology|biology]]):'' [[Imperfectly]] formed or developed; [[rudimentary]]; [[sterile]]; as, an '''abortive''' organ, [[stamen]], [[ovule]], etc.
#''([[:Category:Jargon:Medical|medicine]]):'' Causing abortion; as, '''abortive''' medicines. - [[Parr]]
#''([[:Category:Jargon:Medical|medicine]]):'' Cutting short; as, ''abortive'' treatment of [[typhoid]] fever.
===Noun===
#''(Obsolete):'' That which is born or brought forth [[prematurely]]; an [[abortion]]. - Shakespeare, ''Richard III, I-iii''
#''(Obsolete):'' A [[fruitless]] effort or issue.
#A medicine to which is [[attributed]] the property of causing abortion, [[abortifacient]] - [[Dunglison]]

===Translations===
*[[Catalan]]: [[avortiu]]
*[[French]]: [[abortif]]
*[[German]]: [[vorzeitig]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abortive]]
*[[Italian]]: [[abortito]], [[abortivo]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[abortivo]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[abortivo]]

[[Category:Jargon:Medical]]
[[Category:Jargon:Biology]]

[[fr:abortif]]
[[it:abortive]]