'''Above''', ''[[prep. (part of speech)|prep.]]'' [OE. ''above'', ''aboven'', ''abuffe'', AS. ''abufon''; ''an'' (or ''on'') on + ''be'' by + ''ufan'' upward; cf. Goth. ''uf'' under. [[&radic]];199. See [[Over]].]

<ol>
<li>In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to ''below'' or ''beneath''.

<code>Fowl that may fly ''above'' the earth. ''[[Gen. i. 20 (source)|Gen. i. 20]].''</code>

<li> Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; [[surpassing]]; beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things ''above'' [[comprehension]]; ''above'' mean actions; conduct ''above'' reproach.

<code>Thy worth ... is actions ''above'' my gifts.</code> ''[[Marlowe (source)|Marlowe]].''

<code>I saw in the way a light from heaven ''above'' the brightness of the sun. ''[[Acts xxxvi. 13 (source)|Acts xxxvi. 13]].''</code>

<li> [[Surpassing]] in number or quantity; more than; as, ''above'' a hundred. (Passing into the [[adverbial]] sense. See [[Above]], ''[[adverb (part of speech)|adverb]]'', 4.)

'''above all''', before every other consideration; chiefly; in [[preference]] to other things.

'''Over and above''', ''[[prep. (part of speech)|prep.]] or [[adverb (part of speech)|adverb]]'', besides; in addition to.
</ol>
-----
'''Above''', ''[[adverb (part of speech)|adverb]]''

<ol>
<li>In a higher place; [[overhead]]; into or from heaven; as, the clouds ''above''.

<li> Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a [[foregoing]] page.

<code>That was said ''above''.</code> ''[[Dryden (source)|Dryden]].''

<li> Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court ''above''.

<li> More than; as, ''above'' five hundred were present.

''Above'' is often used [[elliptically]] as an adjective by [[omitting]] the word ''mentioned'', ''quoted'', or the like; as, the ''above'' observations, the ''above'' reference, the ''above'' articles. -- ''Above'' is also used [[substantively]].

<code>The waters that come down from ''above''.</code> ''[[Josh. iii. 13 (source)|Josh. iii. 13]].''

It is also used as the first part of a compound in the sense of ''before'', ''previously''; as, ''above''-cited, ''above''- described, ''above''[[-mentioned]], ''above''-named, ''above''said, ''above''specified, ''above''[[-written]], ''above''[[-given]].
</ol>