===Etymology===
Latin ''abruptus'', past participle of ''abrumpere'' to break off; ''ab'' + ''rumpere'' to break. See [[Rupture]]
===Adjective===
#Broken off; very steep, or [[craggy]], as rocks, [[precipices]], banks; [[precipitous]]; steep; as, ''abrupt'' places.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Tumbling through ricks ''abrupt'', - [[Thomson]]
#Without notice to prepare the mind for the event; sudden; hasty; [[unceremonious]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The cause of your ''abrupt'' departure. - Shakespeare, ''Henry VI Part I, II-iii''
#Having sudden [[transitions]] from one subject to another; [[unconnected]].
#:'''Examples'''
#:*The party came to an abrupt end when the parents of our host arrived.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The ''abrupt'' style, which hath many breaches. - [[B. Jonson]]
#''(Botany):'' Suddenly [[terminating]], as if cut off. - [[Gray]]
===Synonyms===
*Sudden; [[unexpected]]; hasty; rough; curt; [[unceremonious]]; rugged; blunt; [[disconnected]]; broken; [[brusque]].

===Translations===
*[[Dutch]]: abrupt, [[bruusk]], [[plots]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[jyrkkä]] (1), [[äkillinen]], [[odottamaton]] (2,3)
*[[French]]: [[brusque]], [[precipité]]
*[[German]]: [[plötzlich]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abrupte]], [[brusc]], [[precipitate]]
*[[Italian]]: [[brusco]]
*Latin: [[abruptus]] ''m'', [[abrupta]] ''f'', [[abruptum]] ''n''
*[[Norwegian]]: [[bratt]], [[plutselig]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[abrupto]]
*[[Romanian]]: abrupt, [[brusc]], [[precipitat]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[abrupto]], [[brusco]], [[de repiente]], [[precipitado]]
*[[Tamil]]: [[சடுதி]]

===Etymology 2===
Latin ''abruptum'', from ''ab'' =from and ''ruptum'' =broken.
===Noun===
#''(Poetic):'' An abrupt place.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Over the vast ''abrupt''. - [[Milton]]

===Transitive verb===
#''(Obsolete):'' To tear off or [[asunder]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Till death ''abrupts'' them. - [[Sir T. Browne]]