''This definition is taken from a public domain 1913 edition of Webster's Dictionary: please see [[Absolve]] for the new Wiktionary definition of this term.''

'''Absolve''', ''<code>[[transitive verb (part of speech)|transitive verb]]</code>'' [''<code>[[imp. (part of speech)|imp.]] & [[past participle (part of speech)|past participle]]</code>'' [[Absolved]] (&?;); ''<code>[[present participle (part of speech)|present participle]] & [[vb. n. (part of speech)|vb. n.]]</code>'' [[Absolving]].] [L. ''absolvere'' to set free, to [[absolve]]; ''ab'' + ''solvere'' to loose. See [[Assoil]], [[Solve]].]

<ol>
<li>To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or [[responsibility]], or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it would be sin or guilt to [[violate]]; to [[pronounce]] free; as, to ''absolve'' a subject from his [[allegiance]]; to ''absolve'' an [[offender]], which amounts to an [[acquittal]] and [[remission]] of his punishment.

<code>Halifax was ''absolved'' by a majority of fourteen. ''[[Macaulay (source)|Macaulay]].''</code>

<li> To free from a penalty; to [[pardon]]; to [[remit]] (a sin); -- said of the sin or guilt.

<code>In his name I ''absolve'' your perjury. ''[[Gibbon (source)|Gibbon]].''</code>

<li> To finish; to accomplish. [Obs.]

<code>The work begun, how soon ''absolved''. ''[[Milton (source)|Milton]].''</code>

<li> To resolve or [[explain]]. [Obs.]

<code>We shall not ''absolve'' the doubt.</code> ''[[Sir T. Browne (source)|Sir T. Browne]].''

'''Synonyms:''' -- To [[Absolve]], [[Exonerate]], [[Acquit]]. We speak of a man as ''absolved'' from something that binds his [[conscience]], or [[involves]] the charge of [[wrongdoing]]; as, to ''absolve'' from allegiance or from the obligation of an oath, or a promise. We speak of a person as ''exonerated'', when he is [[released]] from some burden which had rested upon him; as, to ''exonerate'' from [[suspicion]], to ''exonerate'' from blame or [[odium]]. It implies a [[purely]] moral acquittal. We speak of a person as ''acquitted'', when a decision has been made in his favor with reference to a specific charge, either by a jury or by [[disinterested]] persons; as, he was ''acquitted'' of all [[participation]] in the crime.
</ol>