===Etymology===
French ''accepter'', Latin ''acceptare'', [[frequentative]] of ''accipere''; ''ad'' (to) + ''capere'' (to take).
===Transitive verb===
'''to accept'''<br>
''Past tense and past participle'': [[Accepted]]<br>
''Present participle and verbal noun'' [[Accepting]]

#To receive with a [[consenting]] mind (something offered); as, to ''accept'' a gift; -- often followed by ''of''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*If you ''accept'' them, then their worth is great. - Shakespeare: ''Taming of the Shrew, II-ii''
#:*To ''accept'' of ransom for my son. - Milton: ''Samson Agonistes''
#:*She ''accepted'' of a treat. ''[[Addison (source)|Addison]].''
#To receive with favor; to [[approve]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The Lord ''accept'' thy burnt sacrifice. - ''Psalms 20:3''
#:*Peradventure he will ''accept'' of me. - ''Genesis. 32:20''
#To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I ''accept'' your [[proposal]], [[amendment]], or [[excuse]].
#To take by the mind; to [[understand]]; as, How are these words to be ''accepted''?
#''(Commerce)'': To receive as [[obligatory]] and promise to pay; as, to ''accept'' a bill of exchange. - Bouvier: ''Law Dictionary'', 1856
#In a [[deliberative]] body, to receive in [[acquittance]] of a duty imposed; as, to ''accept'' the report of a [[committee]]. (This makes it the property of the body, and the question is then on its [[adoption]].)
====Synonyms====
*To [[receive]]; [[take]]; [[admit]]. 
==== Translations ====
*{{msg:fi}}: [[hyväksyä]] (2, 3)

===Derived words===
:[[acceptability]] - [[acceptable]] - [[acceptableness]] - [[acceptably]] - [[acceptance]] - [[acceptancy]] - [[acceptant]] - [[acceptation]] - [[acceptedly]] - [[accepter]] - [[acceptilation]] - [[acception]] - [[acceptive]] - [[acceptor]] - 
===Derived phrases===
*'''To accept a bill''' ''(Law)'': to agree (on the part of the [[drawee]]) to pay it when due. 
*'''To accept service''' ''(Law)'': to agree that a writ or process shall be considered as [[regularly]] served, when it has not been. 
*'''To accept the person''' ''Ecclesiastical'': to show [[favoritism]].
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*God '''accepteth''' no man's '''person'''. - ''Galatians 2:6''

===Adjective===
'''accept'''
#''(Obsolete)'' Accepted.  
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Pass our accept and peremptory answer. - Shakespeare: ''Henry V, V-ii''

==== Translations ====
*[[Catalan]]: [[acceptar]]
*Dutch: [[ontvangen]], [[aannemen]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[akcepti]]
*{{msg:fr}}: [[accepter]]
*{{msg:de}}: [[empfangen]], [[annehmen]]
*Indonesian: [[terima]], [[setuju]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[acceptar]]
*{{msg:it}}: [[accettare]]
*{{msg:ja}}: [[受ける]] ([[うける]], ukeru), [[受理]] ([[じゅり]], juri), [[もらう]] (morau)
*{{msg:pt}}: [[aceitar]]
*{{msg:es}}: [[aceptar]]