===Etymology===
French ''accent'', Latin ''[[accentus]]''; ''[[ad]]'' + ''[[cantus]]'' a singing, ''[[canere]]'' to sing. See [[cant]]. For the verb: Old French ''[[accenter]]'', French ''[[accentuer]]''
===Noun===
#A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the others.
#:'''Note:''' Many English words have two accents, the ''primary'' and the ''secondary''; the primary being uttered with a greater stress of voice than the secondary; as in ''as<b>'</b>pira<b>"</b>tion'', where the chief stress is on the third syllable, and a slighter stress on the first. Some words, as ''an<b>'</b>tiap<b>'</b>o-plec<b>"</b>tic'', ''in-com<b>'</b>pre-hen<b>'</b>si-bil<b>"</b>i-ty'', have two secondary accents. 
#A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the pronunciation; especially:
#:(a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of the spoken accent;
#:(b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the vowel marked; as, the French '''accents'''
#:'''Note:''' In the ancient Greek the '''acute accent''' (<b>&#180;</b>) meant a raised tone or pitch, the '''grave''' (<b>&#0096</b>), the level tone or simply the negation of accent, the '''circumflex''' (<b>~</b> or <b>^</b>) a tone raised and then depressed. In works on elocution, the first is often used to denote the rising inflection of the voice; the second, the falling inflection; and the third (^), the compound or waving inflection. In dictionaries, spelling books, and the like, the acute accent is used to designate the syllable which receives the chief stress of voice.
#Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice; tone; as, a foreign '''accent'''; a French or a German '''accent'''
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Beguiled you in a plain '''accent'''. - Shakespeare, ''King Lear, II-ii''
#:*A perfect '''accent''' - [[Thackeray]]
#:*The tender '''accent''' of a woman's cry. - [[Prior]]
#A word; a significant tone
#''(In plural);'' expressions in general; speech.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Winds! on your wings to Heaven her '''accents''' bear, / Such words as Heaven alone is fit to hear. - [[Dryden]]
#''(Prosody):'' Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.
#''(Music):'' A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the measure
#''(Music):'' A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure
#''(Music):'' The '''rhythmical accent''', which marks phrases and sections of a period
#''(Music):'' The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage - [[J. S. Dwight]]
#''(Mathematics):'' A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as <b>y'</b>, <b>y<nowiki>''</nowiki></b> 
#''(Mathematics - Trigonometry):'' A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, <b>12' 27<nowiki>''</nowiki></b>, ''i. e.'', twelve minutes twenty seven seconds 
#''(Engineering):'' A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, '''6' 10<nowiki>''</nowiki>''' is six feet ten inches
#[[Paint]], [[wallpaper]], or similar [[coating]] that [[contrast]]s with the surrounding region

===Transitive Verb===
Imperfect and past participle:  '''accented'''<br>
Present participle: '''accenting'''
#To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to utter or to mark with accent.
#To mark emphatically; to emphasize.

===Translations===
*[[Dutch]]: [[accent]] ''n''
*[[French]]: accent
*[[German]]: [[Akzent]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[accento]]
*[[Italian]]: [[accento]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[acento]]
*[[Romanian]]: accent
*[[Spanish]]: [[acento]]
*[[Swedish]]: accent

[[sv:accent]]