''This definition is taken from a public domain 1913 edition of Webster's Dictionary: please see [[Accidental]] for the new Wiktionary definition of this term.''

'''Accidental''', ''<code>[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]</code>'' [Cf. F. ''accidentel'', earlier ''accidental''.]

<ol>
<li>[[Happening]] by chance, or [[unexpectedly]]; taking place not according to the usual course of things; [[casual]]; [[fortuitous]]; as, an ''accidental'' [[visit]].

<li> [[Nonessential]]; not necessary belonging; [[incidental]]; as, are ''accidental'' to a play.

'''Accidental chords''' ''([[Mus (subject)|Mus]]).'', those which contain one or more tones foreign to their proper harmony. -- '''Accidental colors''' ''([[Opt (subject)|Opt]]).'', colors [[depending]] on the [[hypersensibility]] of the [[retina]] of the eye for [[complementary]] colors. They are [[purely]] [[subjective]] sensations of color which often result from the [[contemplation]] of [[actually]] colored bodies. -- '''Accidental point''' ''([[Persp (subject)|Persp]]).'', the point in which a right line, drawn from the eye, parallel to a given right line, cuts the [[perspective]] plane; so called to distinguish it from the principal point, or point of view, where a line drawn from the eye perpendicular to the perspective plane meets this plane. -- '''Accidental lights''' ''([[Paint (subject)|Paint]]).'', secondary lights; effects of light other than ordinary [[daylight]], such as the rays of the sun [[darting]] through a cloud, or between the leaves of trees; the effect of [[moonlight]], [[candlelight]], or burning bodies. ''[[Fairholt (source)|Fairholt]].''

'''Synonyms:''' -- [[Casual]]; fortuitous; [[contingent]]; [[occasional]]; [[adventitious]]. -- [[Accidental]], [[Incidental]], [[Casual]], [[Fortuitous]], [[Contingent]]. We speak of a thing as ''accidental'' when it falls out as by chance, and not in the regular course of things; as, an ''accidental'' meeting, an ''accidental'' advantage, etc. We call a thing ''incidental'' when it falls, as it were, ''into'' some regular course of things, but is secondary, and forms no essential part [[thereof]]; as, an ''incremental'' remark, an ''incidental'' evil, an ''incidental'' benefit. We speak of a thing as ''casual'', when it falls out or happens, as it were, by mere chance, without being [[prearranged]] or [[premeditated]]; as, a ''casual'' remark or encounter; a ''casual'' [[observer]]. An idea of the [[unimportant]] is attached to what is ''casual''. ''Fortuitous'' is applied to what occurs without any known cause, and in opposition to what has been [[foreseen]]; as, a ''fortuitous'' [[concourse]] of atoms. We call a thing ''contingent'' when it is such that, considered in itself, it may or may not happen, but is dependent for its existence on something else; as, the time of my coming will be ''contingent'' on [[intelligence]] yet to be received.
</ol>
-----
'''Accidental''', ''<code>[[noun (part of speech)|noun]]</code>''

<ol>
<li>A property which is not essential; a [[nonessential]]; anything [[happening]] [[accidentally]].

<code>He conceived it just that ''accidentals'' ... should sink with the substance of the accusation. ''[[Fuller (source)|Fuller]].''</code>

<li> ''[[pl (source)|pl]].'' ''([[Paint (subject)|Paint]]).'' Those [[fortuitous]] effects produced by [[luminous]] rays falling on certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.

<li> ''([[Mus (subject)|Mus]]).'' A sharp, flat, or natural, occurring not at the [[commencement]] of a piece of music as the [[signature]], but before a particular note.
</ol>