===[[Pronunciation]]===
''ac-com'plish'''
*[[IPA]]: //
*[[SAMPA]]: //
===[[Etymology]]]==
[OE. ''''acomplissen'''', OF. ''''accomplir''', F. ''''accomplir'''; L. '''ad + complere''' to fill up, complete. See [[Complete]], [[Finish]].
=== [[Verb]] ===
'''accomplish'''
# to finish successfully
===[[Transitive verb]]===
Imperfect and past participle: [[Accomplished]] , <br>
Present participle: [[Accomplishing]].</wordforms> 

''''1.''' To complete, as time or distance.

<blockquote>That He would <b>accomplish</b> seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem.
<i>Dan. ix. 2.</i></i></blockquote>

<blockquote>He had <b>accomplished</b> half a league or more.
<i>Prescott.</i></i></blockquote>
#To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to execute fully; to fulfill; <as>as, to <ex>accomplish</ex> a design, an object, a promise</as>.

<blockquote>This that is written must yet be <b>accomplished</b> in me.
<i>Luke xxii. 37.</i></i></blockquote>
#To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish.

<blockquote>The armorers <b>accomplishing</b> the knights.
<i>Shak.</i></i></blockquote>

<blockquote>It [the moon] is fully <b>accomplished</b> for all those ends to which Providence did appoint it.
<i>Wilkins.</i></i></blockquote>

<blockquote>These qualities . . . go to <b>accomplish</b> a perfect woman.
<i>Cowden Clarke.</i></i></blockquote>
#To gain; to obtain.</def> <mark>[Obs.]</mark>
<i>Shak.</i></i>

<syn>Syn. -- To do; perform; fulfill; realize; effect; effectuate; complete; consummate; execute; achieve; perfect; equip; furnish.</syn> -- <usage>To [[Accomplish]], [[Effect]], [[Execute]], [[Achieve]], [[Perform]]. These words agree in the general idea of carrying out to some end proposed. To <i>accomplish</i></i> (to fill up to the measure of the intention) generally implies perseverance and skill; as, to <i>accomplish</i></i> a plan proposed by one's self, an object, a design, an undertaking. Thou shalt <i>accomplish</i></i> my desire."
<i>1 Kings v. 9.</i></i>

<blockquote>He . . . expressed his desire to see a union <b>accomplished</b> between England and Scotland.
<i>Macaulay.</i></i></blockquote>

To <i>effect</i></i> (to work out) is much like <i>accomplish</i></i>. It usually implies some degree of difficulty contended with; as, he <i>effected</i></i> or <i>accomplished</i></i> what he intended, his purpose, but little. What he decreed, he <i>effected</i></i>."
<i>Milton.</i></i>

<blockquote>To work in close design by fraud or guile
What force <b>effected</b> not.
<i>Milton.</i></i></blockquote>

To <i>execute</i></i> (to follow out to the end, to carry out, or into effect) implies a set mode of operation; as, to <i>execute</i></i> the laws or the orders of another; to <i>execute</i></i> a work, a purpose, design, plan, project. To <i>perform</i></i> is much like to <i>do</i></i>, though less generally applied. It conveys a notion of protracted and methodical effort; as, to <i>perform</i></i> a mission, a part, a task, a work. Thou canst best <i>perform</i></i> that office."
<i>Milton.</i></i>

<blockquote>The Saints, like stars, around his seat
<b>Perform</b> their courses still.
<i>Keble.</i></i></blockquote>

To <i>achieve</i></i> (to come to the end or arrive at one's purpose) usually implies some enterprise or undertaking of importance, difficulty, and excellence.</usage>

=== [[Translations]] ===
*[[French]]: [[accomplir]]
*[[German]]: [[vollenden sich]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[selesai|menyelesaikan]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[complir]], [[realisar]]
*[[Italian]]: [[compire]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[完成]]させる ([[かんせい]]させる, kansei-saseru), [[成し遂げる]] ([[なしとげる]], nashitogeru), [[完了]]させる ([[かんりょう]]させる, kanryō-saseru)
*[[Portuguese]]: [[realizar]], [[cumprir]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[lograr]]