===[[Pronunciation]]===
'''ac-com'pa-ny'''
*[[IPA]]: //
*[[SAMPA]]: //
===[[Etymology]]===
=== Verb ===
'''accompany'''
# to be or go together with someone, to play music or sing in support

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[vergezellen]], [[begeleiden]]
*[[French]]: [[Accompagner]]
*[[German]]: [[Begleiten sich]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[teman|menemani]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[Accompaniar]]
*[[Italian]]: [[Accompagnare]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[付き添う]] ([[つきそう]], tsukisou)
*[[Portuguese]]: [[Acompanhar]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[Acompañar]]

===Transitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: [[Accompanied]] ; <br>
Present participle: [[Accompanying]] ]</wordforms> <ety>[OF. <ets>aacompaignier</ets>, F. <ets>accompagner</ets>, to associate with, fr. OF. <ets>compaign</ets>, <ets>compain</ets>, companion. See [[Company]].
<p><b>1.</b> <def>To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company with; to go along with; -- followed by <i>with</i></i> or <i>by</i></i>; <as>as, he <ex>accompanied</ex> his speech with a bow</as>.

<blockquote>The Persian dames, . . . 
In sumptuous cars, <b>accompanied</b> his march.
<i>Glover.</i></i></blockquote>

<blockquote>They are never alone that are <b>accompanied</b> with noble thoughts.
<i>Sir P. Sidney.</i></i></blockquote>

<blockquote>He was <b>accompanied</b> by two carts filled with wounded rebels.
<i>Macaulay.</i></i></blockquote>
#To cohabit with.</def> <mark>[Obs.]</mark>
<i>Sir T. Herbert.</i></i>

<syn>Syn. -- To attend; escort; go with.</syn> <usage> -- To [[Accompany]], [[Attend]], [[Escort]]. We <i>accompany</i></i> those with whom we go as companions. The word imports an <i>equality</i></i> of station. We <i>attend</i></i> those whom we wait upon or follow. The word conveys an idea of <i>subordination</i></i>. We <i>escort</i></i> those whom we attend with a view to guard and protect. A gentleman <i>accompanies</i></i> a friend to some public place; he <i>attends</i></i> or <i>escorts</i></i> a lady.</usage>
----
===Intransitive verb===
<p><b>1.</b> <def>To associate in a company; to keep company.</def> <mark>[Obs.]</mark>
<i>Bacon.</i></i>

<blockquote>Men say that they will drive away one another, . . . and not <b>accompany</b> together.
<i>Holland.</i></i></blockquote>
#To cohabit (with).</def> <mark>[Obs.]</mark>
<i>Milton.</i></i>
#(Mus.)</fld> <def>To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.