===Etymology===
From Old English ''acord'', ''accord'', ''acorden'', ''accorden'', through Old French ''acort'', ''acorde'', and ''acorder'' French ''accord'' and ''accorder'', and in turn from Late Latin ''accordare''; Latin ''ad'' + ''cor'', ''cordis'', heart. Cf. [[Concord]], [[Discord]], and see [[Heart]].

===Noun===
#Agreement or [[concurrence]] of opinion, will, or action; harmony of mind; consent; assent.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A mediator of an ''accord'' and peace between them. - [[Bacon]].
#:*These all continued with one ''accord'' in prayer. - ''Acts 1:14'' 
#:'''Translations'''
#:*[[French]]: [[entente]]
#:*[[German]]: [[Übereinstimmung]]
#:*[[Hebrew]]: [[הסכם]]
#:*[[Indonesian]]: [[sepakat|kesepakatan]], [[setuju|persetujuan]]
#:*[[Interlingua]]: [[accordo]]
#:*[[Italian]]: [[accordo]]
#:*[[Japanese]]: [[合意]] ([[ごうい]], gōi)
#:*[[Portuguese]]: [[acordo]] 
#:*[[Romanica]]: [[accordo]] ''m''
#:*[[Spanish]]: [[acuerdo]]
#Harmony of sounds; agreement in pitch and tone; [[concord]]; as, the ''accord''
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Those sweet ''accords'' are even the angels' lays. - [[Sir J. Davies]].
#Agreement, harmony, or just [[correspondence]] of things; as, the ''accord'' of light and shade in painting.
#Voluntary or [[spontaneous]] motion or [[impulse]] to act; -- preceded by ''own''; as, of one's own ''accord''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That which groweth of its own ''accord'' of thy harvest thou shalt not reap. -  ''Leviticus xxv. 5''
#:*Of his own ''accord'' he went unto you. - ''2 Corinthians 7:17''
#''(Law)'' An agreement between parties in [[controversy]], by which satisfaction for an injury is [[stipulated]], and which, when [[executed]], bars a suit. - [[Blackstone]].''
#:'''Derived phrase'''
#:*'''With one accord''', with [[unanimity]].
#::They rushed ''with one accord'' into the theater. - ''Acts 19:29''

===Proper noun===
#A model name for a passenger car produced by the Honda Company
===Transitive verb=== 
Past tense and past participle: [[Accorded]];<br>
Present participle and verbal noun: [[According]]. 
#To make to agree or [[correspond]]; to suit one thing to another; to adjust; -- followed by ''to''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Her hands ''accorded'' the lute's music to the voice. - [[Sidney]].
#:'''Translations'''
#:*[[Spanish]]: ''acordar''
#To bring to an agreement, as persons; to [[reconcile]]; to settle, adjust, [[harmonize]], or [[compose]], as things; as, to ''accord'' suits or [[controversies]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*When they were ''accorded'' from the fray. - [[Spenser]].
#:*All which particulars, being confessedly knotty and difficult can never be ''accorded'' but by a competent stock of critical learning. - [[South]].
#To grant as suitable or proper; to [[concede]]; to [[award]]; as, to ''accord'' to one due praise.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*''According'' his desire. - [[Spenser]].
===Intransitive verb===
#To agree; to [[correspond]]; to be in harmony; -- followed by ''with'', formerly also by ''to''; as, his disposition ''accords'' with his looks.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*My heart ''accordeth'' with my tongue. - Shakespeare, ''2 Henry VI, III-i''
#:*Thy actions to thy words ''accord''. - Milton, ''Paradise regained''
#To agree in pitch and tone.
===Derived words===
[[according]] - [[accordingly]] - [[accordment]]