===Etymology===
Derivative of [[accord]]
===Verb===
#Present participle of [[accord]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Mind and soul ''according'' well. - ''[[Tennyson]].''
===Adjective===
#[[Agreeing]]; in agreement or harmony; [[harmonious]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*This ''according'' voice of national wisdom. - ''[[Burke]]''
===Adverb with "to"===
'''''Note:''''' ''According to'' has been called a [[preposition]]al phrase, but [[strictly]] speaking, ''according'' is a participle in the sense of ''agreeing'', ''acceding'', and ''to'' alone is the preposition.
#In a manner conforming or corresponding to; in proportion 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*''According to'' him, every person was to be bought. - ''[[Macaulay]]''
#:*Our zeal should be ''according to'' knowledge. - ''[[Sprat]]''
#:'''Translations'''
#:* [[French]]: [[selon]]
#:* [[German]]: [[entsprechend]]
#:* [[Interlingua]]: [[secundo]]
#:* [[Italian]]: [[secondo]]
#:* [[Portuguese]]: [[de acordo com]]
#:* [[Spanish]]: [[según]]
#:* [[Dutch]]: [[volgens]], [[overeenkomstig]]

===Adverb with "as"===
#[[precisely]] as; the same as; corresponding to the way in which. ''According as'' is an [[adverbial]] phrase, of which the [[propriety]] has been doubted; but good usage [[sanctions]] it.  
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Is all things well, ''According as'' I gave directions? - Shakespeare, ''2 Henry VI, III-ii''
#:*The land which the Lord will give you ''according as'' he hath promised. - ''Exodus xii. 25''
===Adverb by itself===
#[[Accordingly]]; [[correspondingly]]. [Obsolete]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That apprehends no further than this world, And squarest thy life according - - Shakespeare, ''Measure for Measure, V, i''