===[[Pronunciation]]===

'''ac-cre*dit'''
*[[IPA]]: //
*[[SAMPA]]: //
aah-KREH-dit
===[[Etymology]]===

F. ''accr&eacute;diter''; ''&agrave;'' (L. ''ad'') + ''cr&eacute;dit'' credit. See [[Credit]].
===[[Verb]]===

[''<code>[[imp. (part of speech)|imp.]] & [[past participle (part of speech)|past participle]]</code>'' [[Accredited]]; ''<code>[[present participle (part of speech)|present participle]] & [[vb. n. (part of speech)|vb. n.]]</code>'' [[Accrediting]].] 

<code>His censure will ... ''accredit'' his praises. ''[[Cowper]].''</code>

<code>These reasons ... which ''accredit'' and fortify mine opinion. ''[[Shelton]].''</code>

<li> To send with letters [[credential]], as an [[ambassador]], [[envoy]], or [[diplomatic]] agent; to [[authorize]], as a [[messenger]] or [[delegate]].

<code>Beton ... was ''accredited'' to the Court of France. ''[[Froude]].''</code>

<li> To believe; to credit; to put trust in.

<code>The version of early Roman history which was ''accredited'' in the fifth century. ''[[Lewis|Sir G. C. Lewis]].''</code>

<code>He ''accredited'' and repeated stories of apparitions and witchcraft. ''[[Southey]].''</code>

<li> To credit; to [[vouch]] for or consider (some one) as doing something, or (something) as belonging to some one.

'''To accredit''' (one) '''with''' (something), to attribute something to him; as, Mr. Clay was ''accredited with'' these views; they ''accredit'' him ''with'' a wise saying.
</ol>

#''to provide with credentials, or to attribute to or credit with''.  
===[[Translations]]===
*[[French]]: [[Accréditer]]
*[[German]]: [[Beglaubigen sich]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[Accreditar]]
*[[Italian]]: [[Accreditare]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[Acreditar]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[Acreditar]]