===Etymology===
Old French ''[[acuser]]'', French ''[[accuser]]'', Latin ''[[accusare]]'', to call to account, accuse; ''[[ad-]]'' + ''[[causa]]'' cause, lawsuit. Compare [[cause]]
===Pronunciation===
'''ac-cuse*''
*[[IPA]]: //
*[[SAMPA]]: //
===Transitive Verb===
Imperfect and past participle: '''accused''' <br>
Present participle: '''accusing'''
# to find fault with or put blame on someone
#To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense
#''(Law):'' to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; -- with '''of'''; as, to '''accuse''' one of a high crime or [[misdemeanor]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Neither can they prove the things whereof they now '''accuse''' me. - ''Acts 24:13
#:*We are '''accused of''' having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down their arms. - [[Macaulay]]
#To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Their thoughts the meanwhile '''accusing''' or else excusing one another. - ''Romans, 2:15''
#To betray; to show - [[wikipedia:en:Philip Sidney|Philip Sidney]]
====Synonyms====
*[[To charge]]; [[blame]]; [[censure]]; [[reproach]]; [[criminate]]; [[indict]]; [[impeach]]; [[arraign]]
====Usage====
*To [[Accuse]], [[Charge]], [[Impeach]], [[Arraign]]. These words agree in bringing home to a person the imputation of wrongdoing. 
*To '''accuse''' is a somewhat formal act, and is applied usually (though not exclusively) to crimes; as, to '''accuse''' of treason.  
*'''Charge''' is the most generic. It may refer to a crime, a dereliction of duty, a fault, etc.; more commonly it refers to moral delinquencies; as, to '''charge''' with dishonesty or falsehood. 
*To '''arraign''' is to bring (a person) before a tribunal for trial; as, to '''arraign''' one before a court or at the bar public opinion. 
*To '''impeach''' is officially to charge with misbehavior in office; as, to '''impeach''' a minister of high crimes. 
*Both '''impeach''' and '''arraign''' convey the idea of peculiar dignity or impressiveness.
==== Translations ====
*[[Dutch]]: [[beschuldigen]]
*[[French]]: [[accuser]]
*[[German]]: [[Beschuldigen sich]]
*[[Ido]]: [[akuzar]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[tuduh|menuduh]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[accusar]]
*[[Italian]], [[Latin]]: [[accusare]]
*[[Polish]]: [[oskarżać]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[acusar]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[acusar]]
===Noun===
#''(Obsolete):'' Accusation - Shakespeare

[[gl:Accuse]]
[[it:accuse]]
[[fi:Accuse]]
[[sv:accuse]]