==English==
===Etymology===
Probably from the prefix [[a-]] + the verb knowledge. See [[Knowledge]], and compare [[Acknow]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ækˈnɑl.ɪʤ/

===Transitive Verb===
acknowledged, acknowledging
# To admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth; to declare one's belief in; as, to '''acknowledge''' the  being of a God.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I '''acknowledge''' my transgressions. - ''Psalm 51:3''.
#:*For ends generally '''acknowledged''' to be good. - [[Thomas Macaulay]]
# To own or recognize in a particular character or relationship; to admit the claims or authority of; to give  recognition to.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*In all thy ways '''acknowledge''' Him. - ''Proverbs'' 3:6
#:* By my soul, I'll ne'er '''acknowledge''' thee. - Shakespeare, ''Romeo and Juliet'', III-v
# To own with gratitude or as a benefit or an obligation; as, to acknowledge a favor, the receipt of a letter.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:* They his gifts '''acknowledged''' none. - [[John Milton]]
# To own as genuine; to assent to, as a legal instrument, to give it validity; to avow or admit in legal form; as, to acknowledgea deed.

====Usage notes==== 
*'''Acknowledge''' is opposed to keep back, or conceal, and supposes that something had  been previously known to us (though perhaps not to others) which we now feel bound to lay open or make  public. Thus, a man '''acknowledges''' a secret marriage; one who has done wrong '''acknowledges''' his fault; and  author '''acknowledges''' his obligation to those who have  aided him; we '''acknowledge''' our ignorance. 
*'''Recognize'''  supposes that we have either forgotten or not had the evidence of a thing distinctly before our minds, but  that now we know it (as it were) anew, or receive and  admit in on the ground of the evidence it brings. Thus, we '''recognize''' a friend after a long absence. We '''recognize''' facts, principles, truths, etc., when their evidence is brought up fresh to the mind; as, bad men usually '''recognize''' the providence of God in seasons of danger. A foreign minister, consul, or agent, of any  kind, is '''recognized''' on the ground of his producing  satisfactory credentials.
*See also [[confess]]

====Synonyms====
To [[avow]]; [[proclaim]]; [[recognize]]; [[own]]; [[admit]]; [[allow]]; [[concede]]; [[confess]].