==English==
===Alternative spellings===
===Etymology===
F. [[actif]], L. [[activus]], fr. [[agere]] to act

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈæk.tɪv/

===Adjective===
# Having the power or quality of acting; causing change; communicating action or motion; acting; &mdash; opposed to [[passive]], that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind.
# Quick in physical movement; of an agile and vigorous body; nimble; as, an active child or animal.
# In action; actually proceeding; working; in force; &mdash; opposed to [[quiescent]], [[dormant]], or [[extinct]]; as, active laws; active hostilities; an active volcano.
# Given to action; constantly engaged in action; energetic; diligent; busy; &mdash; opposed to [[dull]], [[sluggish]], [[indolent]], or [[inert]]; as, an active man of business; active mind; active zeal.
# Requiring or implying action or exertion; &mdash; opposed to [[sedentary]] or to [[tranquil]]; as, active employment or service; active scenes.
# Given to action rather than contemplation; practical; operative; &mdash; opposed to [[speculative]] or [[theoretical]]; as, an active rather than a speculative statesman.
# Brisk; lively; as, an active demand for corn.
# Implying or producing rapid action; as, an active disease; an active remedy.
# (Grammar)
## Applied to a form of the verb; &mdash; opposed to [[passive]]. See [[Active voice]].
## Applied to verbs which assert that the subject acts upon or affects something else; transitive.
## Applied to all verbs that express action as distinct from mere existence or state.