==English==

===Etymology===
Latin addictus, [[p. p.]] of ''addicere'' to [[adjudge]], [[devote]]; [[ad]] + [[dicere]] to say. See [[Diction]].

===Noun===
# One who is addicted.

===Transitive Verb===
*[[imp.]] & [[p. p.]]: Addicted
*[[p. pr.]] & [[vb. n.]]: Addicting


#To apply [[habitually]]; to [[devote]]; to [[habituate]] 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*They '''addict''' themselves to the civil law. ''[[Evelyn]]''.
#:*He is '''addicted''' to his study. [[Beaumont]] & [[Fletcher]]
#:*That part of mankind that '''addict''' their minds to speculations. ''[[Adventurer]]''.
#:*His genius '''addicted''' him to the study of antiquity. ''[[Fuller]]''.
#:*A man gross ... and '''addicted''' to low company. ''[[Macaulay]]''.
#(''[[Obsolete]]'') To [[adapt]]; to make [[suitable]]; to [[fit]].
#:*The land about is exceedingly addicted to wood, but the coldness of the place hinders the growth. ''[[Evelyn]]''.

===Synonyms===
*[[Devote]]
*[[Consecrate]]
*[[Dedicate]] 


"Addict was formerly used in a good sense; as, addicted to letters; but is now mostly employed in a bad sense or an indifferent one; as, addicted to vice; addicted to sensual indulgence. Addicted to staying at home." J. S. Mill. 

Devote is always taken in a good sense, expressing habitual earnestness in the pursuit of some favorite object; as, devoted to science. Consecrate and dedicate express devotion of a higher kind, involving religious sentiment; as, consecrated to the service of the church; dedicated to God.


----
{{webster}}

[[it:addict]]