==English==

===Etymology===
Old English ''adressen'' to raise erect, adorn, Old French ''adrecier'', to straighten, address, French ''adresser'', from ''à'' (Latin ''ad'') + Old French ''drecier'', French ''dresser'', to straighten, arrange. See [[Dress]].

=== Noun ===
Plural: addresses

#Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and place of residence of the person addressed.
#Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.
#A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of thanks, an address to the voters.
#Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or insinuating address.
#Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady. Addison.
#Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.
#(''[[Obsolete]]'') Act of preparing one's self. ''[[Jer Taylor]]''.


====Translations====
*[[Basque]]: [[helbide]]
*[[Chinese]]: [[地址]] 
*Dutch: [[adres]] ''n'' (1)
*Esperanto: [[adreso]] (1)
*French: [[adresse]] ''f'' (1) 
*German: [[Adresse]] ''f'' (1)
*[[Romanica]]: [[adresse]] ''f'' (1)
*Spanish: [[dirección]] ''f'' (1)

====Synonyms====
*[[Speech]]
*[[Discourse]]
*[[Harangue]]
*[[Oration]]
*[[Petition]]
*[[Lecture]]
*[[Readiness]]
*[[Ingenuity]]
*[[Tact]]
*[[Adroitness]]

===Intransitive Verb===
#(''[[Obsolete]]'') To prepare one's self. "Let us address to tend on Hector's heels." ''[[Shakespeare]]''.
#(''[[Obsolete]]'') To direct speech.
#:*Young Turnus to the beauteous maid addrest. - ''[[Dryden]]''.

The intransitive uses come from the dropping out of the reflexive pronoun.


===Transitive Verb===
*[[imp.]] & [[p. p.]]: Addressed
*[[p. pr.]] & [[vb. n.]]: Addressing

#(''[[Obsolete]]'') To aim; to direct. ''[[Chaucer]]''.
#:*And this good knight his way with me '''addrest'''. - ''[[Spenser]]''.
#(''[[Obsolete]]'') To prepare or make ready.
#:*His foe was soon addressed. - ''[[Spenser]]''.
#:*Turnus addressed his men to single fight. - ''[[Dryden]]''.
#:*The five foolish virgins addressed themselves at the noise of the bridegroom's coming. - ''[[Jeremy Taylor]]''.
#Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or energies (to some object); to betake.
#:*These men addressed themselves to the task. - ''[[Macaulay]]''.
#(''[[Archaic]]'') To clothe or array; to dress.
#:*Tecla ... addressed herself in man's apparel. - ''[[Jewel]]''.
#To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).
#:*The young hero had addressed his players to him for his assistance. - ''[[Dryden]]''.
#To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to speak to; to accost.
#:*Are not your orders to address the senate? - ''[[Addison]]''.
#:*The representatives of the nation addressed the king. - ''[[Swift]]''.
#To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.
#To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.
#To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore.
#To address one's self to. (
##To prepare one's self for; to apply one's self to.
##To direct one's speech or discourse to.


----
{{webster}}

[[ru:Address]]