==English==
===Etymology===
OE. aournen, anournen, adornen, OF. aorner, fr. L. aaornare; ad + ornare to furnish, embellish.  See [[Adore]], [[Ornate]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈdoɹn/

===Transitive Verb===
# To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.

To Adorn, Ornament, Decorate, Embellish: We decorate and ornament by putting on some adjunct which  is attractive or beautiful, and which serves to heighten the general effect. Thus, a lady's head-dress  may be ornament or decorated with flowers or jewelry; a hall may be decorated or ornament with carving or gilding, with wreaths of flowers, or with hangings. Ornament is used in a wider sense than decorate. To embellish is to beautify or ornament richly, not so much by mere additions or details as by modifying the  thing itself as a whole. It sometimes means gaudy and  artificial decoration. We embellish a book with rich  engravings; a style is embellished with rich and  beautiful imagery; a shopkeeper embellishes his front  window to attract attention. Adorn is sometimes  identical with decorate, as when we say, a lady was  adorned with jewels. In other cases, it seems to imply  something more. Thus, we speak of a gallery of paintings as adorned with the works of some of the  great masters, or adorned with noble statuary and  columns. Here decorated and ornamented would hardly be appropriate. There is a value in these works of genius  beyond mere show and ornament. Adorn may be used of what is purely moral; as, a character adorned with  every Christian grace. Here neither decorate, nor  ornament, nor embellish is proper.

====Synonyms====
To [[deck]]; [[decorate]]; [[embellish]]; [[ornament]]; [[beautify]]; [[grace]]; [[dignify]]; [[exalt]]; [[honor]].


====Translations====
*Finnish: [[ihailla]]
*Latin: [[adorno]]