==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[alternare]]'', "to take turns", ''[[alternus]]'', "one after another", "by turns", from ''[[alter]]'', "other". See [[altern]], [[alter]].

===Adjective===
'''alternate'''
====Pronunciation====
*IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈɔl.tɚ.nət/
====Definitions====
# Being or succeeding by turns; one following the other in succession of time or place; by turns first one and then  the other; hence, reciprocal.
#:''And bid '''alternate''' passions fall and rise.''  -Pope.
#''(mathematics)'': Designating the members in a series, which regularly intervene between the members of another series, as the odd or even numbers of the numerals; every other; every second.
#:''the '''alternate''' members 1, 3, 5, 7, etc.''
#[[Other]]; alternative.
#''(Botany)'': Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of the stem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence. --Gray.
====Translations====
*German: [[alternierend]] (1,2)
====Related Terms====
*[[alternate allegation]]
*[[alternate angles]] (Geometry), the internal and angles made by two lines with a third, on opposite sides of it. It the parallels AB, CD, are cut by the line EF, the angles AGH, GHD, as also the angles BGH and GHC, are called alternate angles.
*[[alternate generation]]. (Biology)
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

===Noun===
'''alternate''' (plural: '''alternates''')
====Pronunciation====
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈɔl.tɚ.nət/
====Definitions====
#That which alternates with something else; vicissitude. (R.)
#:''Grateful '''alternates''' of substantial.''  -Prior.
#A substitute; one designated to take the place of another, if necessary, in performing some duty.
#''(Mathematics)'': A proportion derived from another proportion by interchanging the means.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->
#Other; alternative.
#''(US)'': A replacement of equal or [[greater]] value or function. <!-- Or is this meaning prevalent everywhere? -->

===Verb===
'''alternate''' ('''alternates''', '''alternated''', '''alternating''')
====Pronunciation====
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ɔl.tɚˈnet/
====Transitive====
# To perform by turns, or in succession; to cause to succeed by turns; to interchange regularly.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->
=====Translations=====
*German: [[alternieren]] (1)
====Intransitive====
# To happen, succeed, or act by turns; to follow  reciprocally in place or time;&mdash;followed by with; as, the flood and ebb tides alternate with each other.
# To vary by turns; as, the land alternates between rocky hills and sandy plains.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->
=====Translations=====
*German: [[alternieren]] (1,2)

===See also===
*[[alternative]]
*[[variant]]

[[pl:Alternate]]