==English==

===Indefinite article===
'''an'''

# Used when the noun may refer to one of several possibilities; ''an egg'' could be any of several, while ''the egg'' refers to a specific egg.
# In each; to or for each
#: ''I was only going twenty miles an hour''
#: ''The consultant was paid $1000 a day.''

====Etymology====
Shortened form of [[an]] [[Anglo-Saxon]] [[&#257;n]] (one). See [[One]]
<!-- Second sense may have this etymology (?):
Derived from the preposition meaning "on"
-->

====Usage Note====

The alternate form [[a]] is used before consonants.  This rule refers to pronunciation, not spelling, so

* ''a dog''
* ''an egg''
* ''an hour'' (''h'' is not pronounced)
* ''a hog'' (''h'' is pronounced)
* ''a yak'' (''y'' counts as a consonant)
* ''a user'' (''u'' is pronounced as ''yu'')
* ''an umbrella''
* ''a woman'' (''w'' counts as a consonant)
* ''a one'' (pronouced the same as "won")
* ''an onion''

There is one occasional exception.  The form ''an'' is sometimes used before ''h'' even when the ''h'' is pronounced.  The usual example is ''an historic occasion.''  Though current in some dialects that pronounce the ''h'', this is considered by many to be affected or pedantic.

===Noun===
'''an'''

#Name of the first [[letter]] of the [[Georgian]] alpahabet.

===Conjunction===
'''an'''

# (''Archaic'') [[If]], so long as
#: ''An it please you, my lord.''

====Translations====
*[[Esperanto]]: ''indifinite article'': ''not translated''; ''conjunction'': [[se]]
*[[Fijian]]: [[e dua na]]

[[Category:English articles]]

----

==Brithenig==
===Noun===
'''an''' ''m''

#a [[year]]
----

==French==
===Noun===
'''an''' ''m''

# a [[year]]

===Synonym===
*[[année]]

[[Category:French language]]
----
==Irish==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[&#601;n]}}; between consonants {{IPA|[&#601;]}}

===Definite article===
Form of the [[definite article]] used in the following cases:
:[[nominative]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] (attaches '''t-''' to a vowel, e.g. '''an t-[[uisce]]''' 'the water')
:[[nominative]] [[singular]] [[feminine]] (triggers [[lenition]], e.g. '''an [[bean#Irish|bhean]]''' 'the woman')
:[[genitive]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] (triggers [[lenition]], e.g. '''an [[páiste|pháiste]]''' 'of the child')
:[[dative]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] and [[feminine]] (triggers [[eclipsis]], e.g. '''ag an [[cailín|gcailín]]''' 'at the girl')

===Interrogative particle===
Used to form direct and indirect questions; triggers [[eclipsis]]; takes the [[dependent]] form (when available) of irregular verbs.
:'''An''' bhfuil tú ag éisteacht? &mdash; ''Are you listening?''
:Níl a fhios agam '''an''' bhfuil sé anseo &mdash; ''I don't know if/whether he is here''

[[Category:Irish language]]
----

==Turkish==

===Noun===
'''an'''

#[[moment]]

[[Category:Turkish language]]

[[et:An]]
[[fr:an]]
[[gl:An]]
[[it:an]]
[[ja:an]]
[[pl:An]]
[[pt:An]]