==English==
===Etymology===
From Middle English > Old English '''and''', '''ond''' (thereupon, next) > Proto-Germanic '''[[*unda]]''' > Proto-Indo-European '''[[*anti]]''' (facing opposite, near, in front of, before).

===Pronunciation===
*(stressed) ănd, /ænd/, /{nd/
*(unstressed) ən(d), /ən(d)/, /@n(d)/

===Conjunction===
'''and'''

# Used to connect two [[homogeneous]] (similar) words, phrases, etc.; as well as; together with; in addition to.
# Used (properly) at the end of a list to indicate the last item: ''bread, butter and cheese.''
# Used to string together sentences or sentence fragments in [[chronological]] order.
# Used to indicate causation ("Ask me the definition of 'and' again and I'll scream.")

====Usage note====
*Beginning a sentence with '''and''' or any other conjunction is considered incorrect by classical grammarians, but use of the word in this way is very common. It is however best to avoid beginning a sentence with '''and''' in formal writing.

====Translations====
*Arabic: -[[و]] (wa-)
*Basque: [[eta]], [[ta]]
*Breton: [[ha]], [[hag]] ''(form before a vowel)''
*Bulgarian: [[и]] (i)
*Catalan: [[i]]
*Chinese: [[和]] (hé)
*[[Chuvash]]: [[тата]] (tata)
*Czech: [[a]]
*Danish: [[og]]
*Dutch: [[en]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[kaj]]
*Estonian: [[ja#Estonian|ja]]
*Finnish: [[ja#Finnish|ja]], [[sekä]], [[ynnä]] (1, ''archaic'')
*French: [[et]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[en]]
*German: [[und]]
*Greek: [[και]] (ke)
*[[Guaraní]]: [[ha]]
*[[Hausa]]: [[dà]]
*Hawaiian: [[ame]], [[a#Hawaiian|a]]
*Hebrew: -[[ו]] (v'-)
*Hungarian: [[és]]
*Icelandic: [[og]]
*Indonesian: [[dan]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[e]] (''rarely:'' [[et]])
*Italian: [[e]] (''optionally becoming'' [[ed]] ''before a vowel for euphony'')
*Japanese: [[と]] (to), [[かつ]] (katsu), [[とか]] (toka), [[や]] (ya), [[て]] (te)
*[[Kannada]]: [[ವುತ್ತು]] (vuttu), [[ಹಾಗೂ]] (hāgū)
*[[Khmer]]: [[និង]] (ning) (1,2); [[រួចេហីយ]] (ruech haey) (3)
*Korean: [[와]] / [[과]] (wa/gwa), [[그리고]] (geurigo)
*Latin: [[et]], [[at]], [[atque]], [[-que]]
*Latvian: [[un]]
*Lithuanian: [[ir]]
*Persian: [[و]] (væ)
*Polish: [[i]]
*Portuguese: [[e]]
*Romanian: [[şi]]
*[[Romanica]]: [[et]]
*Russian: [[и]] (i)
*Serbian: [[и]] (i)
*Slovak: [[a]], [[i]]
*Spanish: [[y]], [[e]] ''(if next word starts with an /i/ sound)''
*Swahili: [[na]]
*Swedish: [[och]]
*Thai: [[และ]] (lae), [[กับ]] (kep)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[na]] (1,2), [[wantaim]] (1)
*Turkish: [[ve]], [[ile]]
*[[Urdu]]: [[اور]] (ur)
*Vietnamese: [[và]]
*Welsh: [[a]], [[ac]] ''(before vowels)''
*[[Xhosa]]: [[na]]- / [[ne]]- / [[ni]]- / [[no]]- / [[nu]]- (1,2); [[yaye]] (3)

===Noun===
'''AND'''
#Logic function AND. True if all inputs are true, false otherwise.  Denoted in mathematics with the symbol <math>\and</math> and in computer science by ''&'' or ''*''.

(0 AND 0) = 0<br>
(0 AND 1) = 0<br>
(1 AND 0) = 0<br>
(1 AND 1) = 1<br>

====Translations====

*Finnish: [[JA]]

===See also===
*[[nand]]
*[[nor]]
*[[or]]
*[[xor]]

----
==Danish==
===Noun===
'''and'''

#[[duck]]

----
==Norwegian==
===Noun===
'''and'''

#[[duck]]

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''and''' (pl. [[änder]], def. sing. [[anden]], def. pl. [[änderna]])

#[[duck]]

[[Category:English conjunctions]]

[[fr:and]]
[[gl:And]]
[[it:and]]
[[la:And]]
[[pl:And]]