==English==
===Etymology===
French [[apparent]], Latin [[apparens]], -entis, [[p.pr.]] of [[apparere]].  See [[Appear]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] //

===Adjective===
# Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to the eye; within sight or view.
#:    The moon . . . apparent queen. --Milton.
# Clear or manifest to the understanding; plain; evident; obvious; known; palpable; indubitable.
#:    It is apparent foul play. --Shak.
# Appearing to the eye or mind (distinguished from, but not necessarily opposed to, true or real); seeming; as the apparent motion or diameter of the sun.
#:    To live on terms of civility, and even of apparent friendship. --Macaulay.
#:    What Berkeley calls visible magnitude was by astronomers called apparent magnitude. --Reid.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Synonyms====
[[Visible]]; [[distinct]]; [[plain]]; [[obvious]]; [[clear]]; [[certain]]; [[evident]]; [[manifest]]; [[indubitable]]; [[notorious]].

====Translations====

* Finnish: [[silminnähtävä]] (1), [[ilmeinen]] (2), [[näennäinen]] (3)

====Related Terms====
[[Apparent horizon]], the circle which in a level plain bounds  our view, and is formed by the apparent meeting of the  earth and heavens, as distinguished from the rational  horizon.

[[Apparent time]].

[[Heir apparent]] (Law), one whose to an estate is indefeasible if he survives the ancestor; -- in distinction from presumptive heir. See [[Presumptive]].
[[gl:Apparent]]
[[it:apparent]]
[[sv:apparent]]