==English==
===Etymology===
Old English apperen, aperen, Old French aparoir (French [[apparoir]]), from Latin [[apparere|apparēre]] "to appear", from [[ad]] "to" + [[parere|parēre]], [[parrere]]  "come forth, to be visible"; probably from the same root as [[parire]] "to produce". Compare with [[Apparent]], [[Parent]], [[Peer]], v.i.

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɪɹ/

===Intransitive Verb===
# To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible.
#:    And God . . . said, Let . . . the dry land appear. --Gen. i. 9.
# To come before the public; as, a great writer appeared at that time.
# To stand in presence of some authority, tribunal, or superior person, to answer a charge, plead a cause, or the like; to present one's self as a party or advocate before a court, or as a person to be tried.
#:    We must all appear before the judgment seat. --[hand] Cor. v. 10.
#:    One ruffian escaped because no prosecutor dared to appear. --Macaulay.
# To become visible to the apprehension of the mind; to be known as a subject of observation or comprehension, or as a thing proved; to be obvious or manifest.
#:    It doth not yet appear what we shall be. --1 John iii. 2.
#:    Of their vain contest appeared no end. --Milton.
# To seem; to have a certain semblance; to look.
#:    They disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. --Matt. vi. 16.

===Synonyms===
*(5): [[seem]], [[look]]

===Antonyms===
*(1): [[disappear]], [[vanish]]


<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

[[it:appear]]
[[fi:Appear]]