==English==
===Etymology===
Old English [[appointen]], [[apointen]], Old French [[apointier]] to prepare, arrange, lean, place, French [[appointer]] to give a salary, refer a cause, from LL. appunctare  to bring back to the point, restore, to fix the point in a controversy, or the points in an agreement; Latin ad + [[punctum]] a point.  See [[Point]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɔɪnt/

===Transitive Verb===
# To fix with power or firmness; to establish; to mark out.
#:    When he appointed the foundations of the earth. --Prov. viii. 29.
# To fix by a decree, order, command, resolve, decision, or mutual agreement; to constitute; to ordain; to prescribe; to fix the time and place of.
#:    Thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint. --2 Sam. xv. 15.
#:    He hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness. --Acts xvii. 31.
#:    Say that the emperor request a parley . . . and appoint the meeting. --Shak.
# To assign, designate, or set apart by authority.
#:    Aaron and his shall go in, and appoint them every one to his service. --Num. iv. 19.
#:    These were cities appointed for all the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them. --Josh. xx. 9.
# To furnish in all points; to provide with everything necessary by way of equipment; to equip; to fit out.
#:    The English, being well appointed, did so entertain them that their ships departed terribly torn. --Hayward.
# (Law) To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a new disposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance;&mdash;said of an estate already conveyed. --Burrill. Kent.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->