==English==
===Etymology===
Old English [[approchen]], [[aprochen]], Old French [[approcher]], LL. [[appropriare]], from Latin ad + [[propiare]] to draw  near, prope near.

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɹotʃ/

===Intransitive Verb===
'''to approach'''
# To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance nearer.
#:    Wherefore approached ye so nigh unto the city? --2 Sam. xi. 20.
#:    But exhorting one another; and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching. --Heb. x. 25.
# To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest statesman.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[lähestyä]] (1)


===Transitive Verb===
'''to approach'''
# To come near to in place, time, or character; to draw nearer to; as, to approach the city; to approach my cabin; he approached the age of manhood.
#:    He was an admirable poet, and thought even to have approached Homer. --Temple.
# (Mil.) To take approaches to.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[lähestyä]] (1)

===Noun===
'''approach'''
# The act of drawing near; a coming or advancing near. 
#:''The  approach of summer.'' --Horsley.
#:A nearer approach to the human type. --Owen.
# A access, or opportunity of drawing near.
#:The approach to kings and principal persons. --Bacon.
# (used only with the plural '''approaches''') Movements to gain favor; advances.
# A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be approached; an access. --Macaulay.
# A manner in which a problem is solved or policy is made.  E.g. ''an approach to gardening''.
# (used only with the plural '''approaches''' (Fortification) The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post.
# (Hort.) See {Approaching}. 
# (Golf) A stroke whose object is to land the ball on the putting  green. It is made with an [[iron]] club.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[lähestyminen]] (1, 2)

[[it:approach]]
[[fi:Approach]]