{{webster}}
{{rfc}}
==English==
===Etymology===
{{L.}} ''[[appropriatus]]'', past participle of ''[[appropriare]]'', from ''[[ad#Latin|ad]]'' + ''[[propriare]]'' to appropriate, from ''[[proprius]]'', one's own, proper.

===Pronunciation===
*Verb:
**[[AHD]]: əprō'priāt
**[[IPA]]: /əˈprəʊpreɪt/ (''[[RP]]''), /əˈproʊpreɪt/ (''US'')
**[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>@"pr@UprieIt</tt>/ (''RP''), /<tt>@"proUpreIt</tt>/ (''US'')
**{{audio|en-us-appropriate-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Adjective:
**AHD: əprō'priĭt ''or'' əprō'priət
**IPA: /əˈprəʊpriɪt/ ''or'' /əˈprəʊpriət/ (''RP''), /əˈproʊpriɪt/ ''or'' /əˈproʊpriət/ (''US'')
**SAMPA: /<tt>@"pr@UpriIt</tt>/ ''or'' /<tt>@"pr@Upri@t</tt>/ (''RP''), /<tt>@"proUpriIt</tt>/ ''or'' /<tt>@"proUpri@t</tt>/ (''US'')
**{{audio|en-us-appropriate-adj.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|appropriat|e||}}
#To take to one's self in exclusion of others; to claim or use as by an exclusive right; as in: "let no man appropriate  the use of a common benefit."
# To set apart for, or assign to, a particular person or use, in exclusion of all others;&mdash;with to or for; as, a spot of ground is appropriated for a garden; to appropriate money for the increase of the navy.
# To make suitable; to suit. [Archaic] --Paley.
# (Eng. Eccl. Law) To annex, as a benefice, to a spiritual corporation, as its property. --Blackstone.

====Translations====
*German: [[aneignen]] (1,4), [[zuweisen]] (2), [[anpassen]] (3), 
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

===Adjective===
====Definitions====
#  (Obsolete) Set apart for a particular use or person. 
#  Hence: Belonging  peculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper.
   In its strict and appropriate meaning. --Porteus.
   Appropriate acts of divine worship. --Stillingfleet.
   It is not at all times easy to find words appropriate to express our ideas. --Locke.

====Translations====
*German: [[zugewiesen]] (1), [[passend]], [[angemessen]] (2)

<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->
====Synonyms====
* [[Felicitous]], [[Apt]], [[Fitting]]

[[category:English heteronyms]]

[[gl:Appropriate]]
[[io:Appropriate]]
[[it:appropriate]]
[[pl:Appropriate]]