==English==

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɹuv/

===Transitive Verb 1 ===

====Etymology====
Old English [[aproven]], [[appreven]], to prove, Old French [[aprover]], French [[approuver]], to approve, from Latin [[approbare]]; ad + [[probare]] to esteem as good, approve, prove.  See [[Prove]], and  compare with [[Approbate]].

====Definition====
# To make proof of; to demonstrate; to prove or show practically.
#:    Opportunities to approve . . . worth. --Emerson.
#:    He had approved himself a great warrior. --Macaulay.
#:    'T is an old lesson; Time approves it true. --Byron.
#:    His account . . . approves him a man of thought. --Parkman.
# To sanction officially; to ratify; to confirm; as, to approve the decision of a court-martial.
# To regard as good; to commend; to be pleased with; to think well of; as, we approve the measured of the administration.
# To make or show to be worthy of approbation or acceptance.
#:    The first care and concern must be to approve himself to God. --Rogers.
#:    Note: This word, when it signifies to be pleased with, to think favorably (of), is often followed by of.
#:    They had not approved of the deposition of James. --Macaulay.
#:    They approved of the political institutions. --W. Black.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

===Transitive Verb 2===

====Etymology====
Old French [[aprouer]]; a (Latin ad) + a form apparently derived from the pro, prod, in Latin [[prodest]] it is useful or profitable, properly the preposition  pro for. Compare with [[Improve]].

====Definition====
#  (English Law) To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit;&mdash;said  esp. of waste or common land appropriated by the lord of the  manor.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->