==English==
===Etymology===
French [[apte]], Latin [[aptus]], from obsolete [[apere]] "to fasten, to join, to fit", akin to [[apisci]] "to reach, attain": compare with Gr. [[ἅπτειν]] (haptīn) "to fasten" and Sanskrit [[आप्त]] (āpta) "fit", from [[आप्]] (āp) "to reach, attain".

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /æpt/

===Adjective===
# Fit or fitted; suited; suitable; appropriate.
#:    They have always apt instruments. --Burke.
#:    A river . . . apt to be forded by a lamb. --Jer. Taylor.
# Having an habitual tendency; habitually liable or likely;&mdash;used of things.
#:    My vines and peaches . . . were apt to have a soot or smuttiness upon their leaves and fruit. --Temple.
#:    This tree, if unprotected, is apt to be stripped of the leaves by a leaf-cutting ant. --Lubbock.
# Inclined; disposed customarily; given; ready;&mdash;used of persons.
#:    Apter to give than thou wit be to ask. --Beau. & Fl.
#:    That lofty pity with which prosperous folk are apt to remember their grandfathers. --F. Harrison.
# Ready; especially fitted or qualified (to do something); quick to learn; prompt; expert; as, a pupil apt to learn; an apt scholar. ''An apt wit.'' --Johnson.
#:    Live a thousand years, I shall not find myself so apt to die. --Shak.
#:    I find thee apt . . . Now, Hamlet, hear. --Shak.

====Synonyms====
[[Fit]]; [[meet]]; [[suitable]]; [[qualified]]; [[inclined]]; [[disposed]]; [[liable]]; [[ready]]; [[quick]]; [[prompt]].

<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

[[it:apt]]

===Translations===

*[[Ido]]: [[apta]]