[[Category:English colors]]
[[Category:Heraldic terminology]]
[[Category:French elements]]
==English==

===Noun===
'''argent'''
# [[silver]]
#(''colour'') of the white or silver colour on a coat of arms.
#:<table><tr><td>argent colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#848482" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
===Adjective===
'''argent'''
# [[silver]]
#(''colour'') the white or silver colour on a coat of arms.

===Derived terms===
*[[argentic]]
*[[argentiferous]]
*[[argentine]]
*[[argentite]]
*[[argentum nitricum]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

===Quotations===
*'''1667''': Those '''argent''' Fields more likely habitants, / Translated Saints, or middle Spirits hold / Betwixt th' Angelical and Human kinde &mdash; John Milton, ''Paradise Lost''
*'''1733''': Or ask of yonder '''argent''' fields above, / Why Jove's Satellites are less than Jove? &mdash; Alexander Pope, ''Essay on Man''
*'''1817''': she did soar / So passionately bright, my dazzled soul / Commingling with her '''argent''' spheres did roll / Through clear and cloudy &mdash; John Keats, ''Endymion''
*'''1817''': Pardon me, airy planet, that I prize / One thought beyond thine '''argent''' luxuries! &mdash; John Keats, ''Endymion''
*'''1818''': Two wings this orb / Possess'd for glory, two fair '''argent''' wings &mdash; John Keats, ''Hyperion''
*'''1819''': At length burst in the '''argent''' revelry, / With plume, tiara, and all rich array, / Numerous as shadows haunting fairily / The brain &mdash; John Keats, ''The Eve of St Agnes''
*'''1891''':"A castle '''argent''' is certainly my crest," said he blandly. &mdash; Thomas Hardy, ''Tess of the d'Urbervilles''
*'''1922''': Like John o'Gaunt his name is dear to him, as dear as the coat and crest he toadied for, on a bend sable a spear or steeled '''argent''', honorificabilitudinitatibus, dearer than his glory of greatest shakescene in the country. &mdash; James Joyce, ''Ulysses''
*'''1922''': Keep our flag flying! An eagle gules volant in a field '''argent''' displayed. &mdash; James Joyce, ''Ulysses''
*'''1967''': '''Argent''' I craft you as the star / Of flower-shut evening &mdash; John Berryman, ''Berryman's Sonnets''

----

==French==
===Noun===
'''argent''' ''m''

#[[money]]
#[[silver]]

[[et:Argent]]
[[fr:argent]]
[[ja:argent]]
[[pl:Argent]]