'''Wild and Terrorost Armenia'''
[[Armenia Agression againist Azeri nation and Turkish people]]

ARMENIAN TERRORISM IN THE WORLD 
 
 
7.06.2004
January 27, 1973 Santa Barbara, California 
The Armenian Gourgen Yanikian, a U.S. citizen, invites the Turkish Consul General, Mehmet Baydar, and the Consul, Bahadir Demir to a luncheon. The unsuspecting diplomats accept the friendly invitation. Gourgen Yanikian murders his two guests. He is sentenced to life imprisonment. 
April 4, 1973 Paris 
Bombings at the Turkish Consulate General and the offices of Turkish Airlines (THY). Extensive damage. 

October 26, 1973 New York 
Attempted bombing of the Turkish Information Office. The bomb is discovered in time and defused. A group calling itself the Yanikian Commandos claims responsibility. They want the release of the double murderer of Santa Barbara, Gourgen Yanikian, who insidiously murdered two Turkish diplomats. 

February 7, 1975 Beirut 
Attempted bombing of the Turkish Information and Tourism Bureau. The bomb explodes while being defused. A Lebanese policeman is injured. The Prisoner Gourgen Yanikian Group claims responsibility. 

February 20, 1975 Beirut 
The Yanikian group demanding the release of the double murderer of Santa Barbara strikes again. Extensive damage is caused by a bomb explosion at the THY offices. ASALA (Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia) also claims responsibility for the bombing. 

October 22, 1975 Vienna 
The Turkish Ambassador, Danis Tunalzgil, is assassinated in his study by three Armenian terrorists. ASALA claims responsibility. 

October 24, 1975 Paris 
Ambassador Ismail Erez and his driver, Talip Yener, are murdered. The ASALA and the JCAG (Justice Commandos for the Armenian Genocide) dispute responsibility. 

October 28, 1975 Beirut 
Grenade attack on the Turkish Embassy. The ASALA claims responsibility. 

February 16, 1976 Beirut 
The First Secretary of the Turkish Embassy, Oktar Cirit, is assassinated in a restaurant on Hamra Street. The ASALA claims responsibility. 

May 17, 1976 Frankfurt, Essen, Cologne 
Consulates General in Frankfurt, Essen and Cologne are the targets of simultaneous bomb attacks. 

May 28, 1976 Zurich 
Bomb attacks at the offices of the Turkish Labor Attache and the Garanti Bank. Extensive damage. A bomb in the Turkish Tourism Bureau is defused in time. Responsibility is claimed by the JCAG. 

May 2, 1977 Beirut 
The cars of the Military Attache, Nahit Karakay, and the Administrative Attache, Ilhan Ozbabacan, are destroyed. The two diplomats are uninjured. Credit is claimed by the ASALA. 

May 14, 1977 Paris 
Bomb attack at the Turkish Tourism Bureau. Extensive damage. The New Armenian Resistance Group claims responsibility. 

June 6, 1977 Zurich 
Bomb attack at the store of a Turkish citizen, Huseyin Bulbul. 

June 9, 1977 Rome 
Assassination of the Turkish Ambassador to the Holy See, Taha Carzm. He dies soon after the attack. The JCAG claims responsibility. 

October 4, 1977 Los Angeles 
Bomb attack at the house of Professor Stanford Shaw, who teaches Ottoman history at the University of California in Los Angeles (UCLA). Responsibility is claimed by an Armenian Group of 28 . 

January 2, 1978 Brussels 
Bomb attack at a building containing Turkish banking services. The New Armenian Resistance claims credit. 

June 2, 1978 Madrid 
Terrorist attack on the automobile of the Turkish Ambassador, Zeki Kuneralp. His wife, Necla Kuneralp, the retired Turkish Ambassador Besir Balczoglu die immediately in the rain of gunfire. The Spanish chauffeur, Antonio Torres, dies of his injuries in the hospital. ASALA and JCAG claim responsibility. 

December 6, 1978 Geneva 
A bomb explodes in front of the Turkish Consulate General. Extensive damage. The New Armenian Resistance Group claims responsibility. 

December 17, 1978 Geneva 
A bomb explodes at the THY Bureau. ASALA claims responsibility. 

July 8, 1979 Paris 
The French capital experiences four bomb attacks in a single day. The first is at the THY offices; the next at the offices of the Turkish Labor Attache; the third in the Turkish Information and Tourism Bureau. A fourth explosive, intended for the Turkish Permanent Representative to the O.E.C.D., is defused before it explodes. The JCAG claims responsibility. 

August 22, 1979 Geneva 
A bomb is thrown at the car of the Turkish Consul General, Niyazi Adalz. The diplomat escapes unhurt. Two Swiss passers-by are injured. Two cars are destroyed. 

August 27, 1979 Frankfurt 
The offices of THY are totally destroyed by an explosion. A pedestrian is injured. The ASALA claims responsibility. 

October 4, 1979 Copenhagen 
Two Danes are injured when a bomb explodes near the offices of THY. ASALA claims credit. 

October 12, 1979 The Hague 
Ahmet Benler, the son of Turkish Ambassador Ozdemir Benler, is assassinated by Armenian terrorists. The murderers escape. JCAG and ASALA claim responsibility. 

October 30, 1979 Milan 
The offices of THY are destroyed by a bomb explosion. ASALA claims responsibility. 

November 8, 1979 Rome 
The Turkish Tourism Office is destroyed by a bomb. ASALA claims responsibility. 

November 18, 1979 Paris 
Bomb explosions destroy the offices of THY, KLM, and Lufthansa. Two French policemen are injured. Responsibility is claimed by ASALA. 

November 25, 1979 Madrid 
Bomb explosions in front of the offices of TWA and British Airways. ASALA, in claiming responsibility, states that the attacks are meant as a warning to the Pope to cancel his planned visit to Turkey. 

December 9, 1979 Rome 
Two bombs explode in downtown Rome, damaging the offices of PAN AM, British Airways and the Philippine Airways. Nine people are injured in the terrorist attack. A New Armenian Resistance Movement claims responsibility. 

December 17, 1979 London 
Extensive damage is caused when a bomb explodes in front of the THY offices. A Front for the Liberation of Armenia claims responsibility. 

December 22, 1979 Paris 
Yzlmaz Colpan, the Tourism Attache at the Turkish Embassy is assassinated while walking on the Champs Elysees. Several groups, including ASALA, JCAG and the Commandos of Armenian Militants Against Genocide claim responsibility. 

December 22, 1979 Amsterdam 
Heavy damage results from a bomb explosion in front of the THY offices. ASALA claims credit. 

December 23, 1979 Rome 
A bomb explodes in front of a World Council of Churches Refugee Center, being used as a transit point for Armenian refugees from Lebanon. ASALA claims credit for the attack and warns the Italian authorities to halt the Armenian diaspora . 

December 23, 1979 Rome 
Three bomb explosions occur in front of the offices of Air France and TWA, injuring a dozen passers-by. ASALA claims responsibility, stating that the bomb was placed in reprisal against the repressive measures of French authorities against Armenians in France (i.e., questioning suspects, carry out investigations, etc.) 

January 10, 1980 Teheran 
A bomb which explodes in front of the THY offices causes extensive damage. ASALA claims responsibility. 

January 20, 1980 Madrid 
A series of bomb attacks, resulting in numerous injuries, occurs in front of the offices of TWA, British Airways, Swissair, and Sabena. The JCAG claims credit for the attacks. 

February 2, 1980 Brussels 
Two bombs explode within minutes of each other in front of the downtown offices of THY and Aeroflot. The New Armenian Resistance Group issues a communique in which they claim responsibility for both attacks. 

February 6, 1980 Bern 
A terrorist opens fire on Turkish Ambassador Dogan Turkmen, who escapes with minor wounds. The would-be-assassin, an Armenian named Max Klindjian, is subsequently arrested in Marseilles and returned to Switzerland for trial. The JCAG claims credit for the attack. 

February 18, 1980 Rome 
The offices of Lufthansa, El Al and Swissair are damaged by two bomb attacks. Telephone messages give three reasons for the attacks: 1. The Germans support Turkish fascism ; 2. The Jews are Zionists (ASALA); 3. The Swiss behave repressively towards the Armenians. 

March 10, 1980 Rome 
Bomb attacks on the THY and Turkish Tourism Bureau offices on the Piazza Della Repubblica. The blasts kill two Italians and injure fourteen. Credit for the attack is claimed by the New Armenian Resistance of the Armenian Secret Army . 

April 17, 1980 Rome 
The Turkish Ambassador to the Holy See, Vecdi Turel, is shot and seriously wounded. His chauffeur, Tahsin Guvenc, is also slightly wounded in the assassination attempt. JCAG claims responsibility for the attack. 

May 19, 1980 Marseilles 
A rocket aimed at the Turkish Consulate General in Marseilles is discovered and defused prior to exploding. ASALA and a group calling itself Black April claim credit for the attack. 

July 31, 1980 Athens 
Galip Ozmen, the Administrative Attache at the Turkish Embassy, and his family are attacked by Armenian terrorists while sitting in their car. Galip Ozmen and his fourteen-year-old daughter, Neslihan, are killed in the attack. His wife, Sevil, and his sixteen-year-old son, Kaan, are wounded. Credit for the double killing is claimed by ASALA. 

August 5, 1980 Lyon 
Two terrorists storm into the Turkish Consulate General in Lyon and open fire, killing two and injuring several other bystanders. ASALA claims credit for the attack. 

August 11, 1980 New York 
An Armenian group hurls paint bombs at the Turkish House across from the United Nations, home of the Turkish Representations in New York. 

September 26, 1980 Paris 
Selcuk Bakkalbasz, the Press Counselor at the Turkish Embassy, is shot as he enters his home. Bakkalbasz survives but is permanently paralyzed as a result of his injuries. ASALA claims responsibility for the attack. 

October 3, 1980 Geneva 
Two Armenian terrorists are injured when a bomb they are preparing explodes in their Geneva hotel room. The two, Suzy Mahseredjian from Canoga Park, California, and Alexander Yenikomechian, are arrested. Their arrest leads to the formation of a new group called October 3 , which subsequently strikes at Swiss targets. 

October 3, 1980 Milan 
Two Italians are injured when a bomb explodes in front of the THY offices. ASALA claims credit for the attack. 

October 5, 1980 Madrid 
The offices of Alitalia are rocked by a bomb explosion which injures twelve individuals. The ASALA claims responsibility for the attack. 

October 6, 1980 Los Angeles 
Two molotov cocktails are thrown into the home of the Turkish Consul General, Kemal Arzkan. He survives with injuries. 

October 10, 1980 Beirut 
Two bombs explode near Swiss offices in West Beirut. A group calling itself October 3 claims responsibility for these bombings as well as others on the same day against Swiss offices in England. 

October 12, 1980 New York 
A bomb placed in front of the Turkish House explodes. Four passers-by are injured. JCAG assumes responsibility. 

October 12, 1980 Los Angeles 
A travel agency in Hollywood, owned by a Turkish-American, is destroyed. JCAG claims responsibility. 

October 12, 1980 London 
The Turkish Tourism and Information Bureau's offices are damaged by a bomb explosion. ASALA claims credit. 

October 12, 1980 London 
A Swiss shopping complex in central London is damaged by a bomb blast. Callers claim the explosion was the work of October 3 . 

October 13, 1980 Paris 
A Swiss tourist office is damaged by a bomb explosion. October 3 again claims credit. 

October 21, 1980 Interlaken, Switzerland 
A bomb is found in a Swiss express train coming from Paris. Luckily, it does not explode. October 3 is believed to be behind the action, which could have caused a catastrophe. 

November 4, 1980 Geneva 
The Swiss Palace of Justice in Geneva is heavily damaged by a bomb explosion. Credit is claimed by October 3 . 

November 9, 1980 Strasbourg 
Heavy damage results from a bomb blast at the Turkish Consulate General. The attack is claimed by ASALA. 

November 10, 1980 Rome 
Five people are injured in attacks on the Swissair and Swiss Tourist offices. ASALA and October 3 claim credit. 

November 19, 1980 Rome 
The offices of the Turkish Tourism Bureau and those of THY are damaged by a bomb explosion. ASALA claims responsibility. 

November 25, 1980 Geneva 
The offices of the Union of Swiss Banks are hit by a bomb explosion. Responsibility is claimed by October 3 . 

December 5, 1980 Marseilles 
A police expert defuses a time bomb left at the Swiss Consulate in Marseilles. October 3 claims responsibility. 

December 15, 1980 London 
Two bombs placed in front of the French Tourism Office in London are defused by a Scotland Yard bomb squad. October 3 claims the bombs are a warning to the French for assistance they have rendered the Swiss in fighting Armenian terrorism. 

December 17, 1980 Sydney 
Two terrorists assassinate sarzk Arzyak, the Turkish Consul General, and his bodyguard, Engin Sever. JCAG claims responsibility. 

December 25, 1980 Zurich 
A bomb explosion destroys a radar monitor at Kloten Airport, and a second explosive planted on the main runway of the airport is defused. October 3 claims credit for these attempted mass-murders. 

December 29, 1980 Madrid 
A Spanish reporter is seriously injured in a telephone booth while calling in a story to his paper about the bomb attack on the Swissair offices. October 3 claims responsibility. 

December 30, 1980 Beirut 
Bomb attack on the Credit-Suisse offices. ASALA and October 3 fight over who gets the credit. 

January 2, 1981 Beirut 
In a press communique, ASALA threatens to attack all Swiss diplomats throughout the world in response to the alleged mistreatment of Suzy and Alex in Switzerland. On January 4, ASALA issues a statement giving the Swiss a few days to think things over. 

January 14, 1981 Paris 
A bomb explodes in the car of Ahmet Erbeyli, the Economic Counselor of the Turkish Embassy. Erbeyli is not injured, but the explosion totally destroys his car. A group calling itself the Alex Yenikomechian Commandos of ASALA claims credit for the explosion. 

January 27, 1981 Milan 
The Swissair and Swiss Tourist offices in Milan are damaged by bomb explosions. Two passers-by are injured. October 3 claims credit for the bombing in a call to local media representatives. 

February 3, 1981 Los Angeles 
Bomb-squad officials disarm a bomb left at the Swiss Consulate. The terrorists threaten in anonymous phone calls that such attacks will continue until Suzy Mahseredjian is released. 

February 5, 1981 Paris 
Bombs explode in the TWA and Air France offices. One injured, heavy material damage. October 3 claims credit. 

March 4, 1981 Paris 
Two terrorists open fire on Resat Moralz, Labor Attache at the Turkish Embassy, Tecelli Arz, Religious Affairs Attache, and Ilkay Karakoc, the Paris representative of the Anadolu Bank. Moralz and Arz are assassinated. Karakoc manages to escape. ASALA claims responsibility. 

March 12, 1981 Teheran 
A group of ASALA terrorists try to occupy the Turkish Embassy, killing two guards in the process. Two of the perpetrators are captured and later executed by the Iranians. ASALA claims credit. 

April 3, 1981 Copenhagen 
Cavit Demir, the Labor Attache at the Turkish Embassy, is shot as he enters his apartment building late in the evening and is seriously wounded. Both ASALA and JCAG claim the attack. 

June 3, 1981 Los Angeles 
Bombs force the cancellation of performances by a Turkish folk-dance group. Threats of similar bombings force the group's performances in San Francisco to be canceled as well. 

June 9, 1981 Geneva 
Mehmet Savas Yerguz, Secretary in the Turkish Consulate, is assassinated by the Armenian terrorist Mardiros Jamgotchian. The arrest of the ASALA terrorist leads to the formation of a new ASALA branch called the Ninth of June Organization, which will be responsible for a new series of attacks. 

June 11, 1981 Paris 
A group of Armenian terrorists, led by one Ara Toranian, occupies the THY offices. Initially ignored by the French authorities, the terrorists are only evicted from the premises after vehement protests from the Turkish Embassy. 

June 19, 1981 Teheran 
A bomb explodes at the offices of Swissair. The Ninth of June Organization claims responsibility. 

June 26, 1981 Los Angeles 
A bomb explodes in front of the Swiss Banking Corporation offices. Again the work of the Ninth of June Organization . 

July 19, 1981 Bern 
A bomb explodes at the Swiss Parliament Building. Ninth of June claims responsibility. 

July 20, 1981 Zurich 
Ninth of June strikes again. A bomb explodes in an automatic photo-booth at Zurich's international airport. 

July 21, 1981 Lausanne 
Twenty women are injured as a bomb laid by Armenian terrorists explodes in a department store. Ninth of June claims responsibility. 

July 22, 1981 Geneva 
A bomb explodes in a locker at the train station. Authorities suspect Ninth of June . 

July 22, 1981 Geneva 
An hour later, a second bomb explodes in a locker at the station. Police cordoned off the area following the first explosion, thereby preventing injuries from the second. 

August 11, 1981 Copenhagen 
Two bombs destroy the offices of Swissair. An American tourist is injured in the explosion. Ninth of June claims responsibility. 

August 20, 1981 Los Angeles 
A bomb explodes outside the offices of Swiss Precision Instruments. The attack is claimed by Ninth of June . 

August 20, 1981 Paris 
Explosion at Alitalia Airlines. October 3 is back in action. 

September 15, 1981 Copenhagen 
Two people are injured as a bomb explodes in front of the THY offices. Police experts manage to defuse a second bomb. Credit is claimed by a Sixth Armenian Liberation Army . 

September 17, 1981 Teheran 
A bomb explosion damages a Swiss Embassy building. ASALA's Ninth of June claims responsibility. 

September 24, 1981 Paris 
Four Armenian terrorists occupy the Turkish Consulate General. During their entry into the building, the Consul, Kaya Inal, and a security guard, Cemal Ozen, are seriously wounded. Terrorists take 56 hostages. Ozen dies of his injuries in the hospital. The terrorists are ASALA members. 

October 3, 1981 Geneva 
The main post office and the city courthouse are hit by bomb explosions. An ASALA member is scheduled to go on trial for murder in the courthouse. Ninth of June claims credit for the attacks, which leave one person injured. 

October 25, 1981 Rome 
An Armenian terrorist fires at Gokberk Ergenekon, Second Secretary at the Turkish Embassy. Ergenekon is wounded in the arm. ASALA claims credit in the name of the September 24 Suicide Commandos . 

October 25, 1981 Paris 
Fouquet's, the fashionable French restaurant, is the target of a bomb attack. A group calling itself September-France claims the attack. 

October 26, 1981 Paris 
The same group is behind the explosion of a booby-trapped automobile in front of Le Drugstore . 

October 27, 1981 Paris 
September-France carries out a bomb attack at Roissy Airport. 

October 27, 1981 Paris 
A second bomb explodes near a busy escalator at Roissy Airport. No one is injured. September-France claims responsibility. 

October 28, 1981 Paris 
The same group is responsible for a bomb attack in a movie theater. Three people are injured. 

November 3, 1981 Madrid 
A bomb explodes in front of the Swissair offices, injuring three persons. Considerable damage to nearby buildings. ASALA claims responsibility. 

November 5, 1981 Paris 
A bomb explodes in the Gare de Lyon, injuring one person. The attack is claimed by the Armenian Orly Organization . 

November 12, 1981 Beirut 
Simultaneous bomb explosions occur in front of three French offices: the French Cultural Center, the Air France offices and the home of the French Consul General. The Orly Organization claims responsibility. This organization owes its name to the fact that the French police arrested an Armenian at Orly Airport in Paris because of forged papers. The idea now is to bomb him free . 

November 14, 1981 Paris 
A bomb explosion damages an automobile near the Eiffel Tower. Orly claims responsibility. 

November 14, 1981 Paris 
Orly launches a grenade attack on a group of tourists disembarking from a sightseeing boat on the River Seine. 

November 15, 1981 Paris 
Orly threatens to blow up an Air France airplane in flight. 

November 15, 1981 Beirut 
Simultaneous bomb attacks are carried out against three French targets: the Union des Assurances de Paris , the Air France offices and the Banque Libano-Francaise . Orly is responsible. 

November 15, 1981 Paris 
A McDonald's restaurant is destroyed by September-France . 

November 16, 1981 Paris 
A bomb injures two innocent bystanders at the Gare de l'Est. Orly claims responsibility. 

November 18, 1981 Paris 
Orly announces that it has planted a bomb at the Gare du Nord. 

November 20, 1981 Los Angeles 
The Turkish Consulate General in Beverly Hills suffers extensive damage. The JCAG claims credit. 

January 13, 1982 Toronto 
An ASALA bomb causes extensive damage to the Turkish Consulate General. 

January 17, 1982 Geneva 
Two bombs destroy parked cars. The ASALA Ninth of June Organization claims credit. 

January 17, 1982 Paris 
A bomb explodes at the Union of Banks and a second is disarmed at the Credit Lyonnais. Orly claims responsibility. 

January 19, 1982 Paris 
A bomb explodes in the Air France offices in the Palais des Congres. Orly claims responsibility. 

January 28, 1982 Los Angeles 
Kemal Arzkan, the Turkish Consul General in Los Angeles, is assassinated by two terrorists while driving to work. Nineteen year old Hampig Sassounian is arrested and sentenced to life. 

March 22, 1982 Cambridge, Massachusetts 
A gift shop belonging to Orhan Gunduz, the Turkish Honorary Consul General in Boston, is blown up. Gunduz receives an ultimatum: Either he gives up his honorary position or he will be executed . Responsibility is claimed by the JCAG. 

March 26, 1982 Beirut 
Two dead, sixteen injured in an explosion at a movie theater. ASALA claims credit for the attack. 

April 8, 1982 Ottawa 
Kani Gungor, the Commercial Attache at the Turkish Embassy in Ottawa, is seriously wounded in an attack by Armenian terrorists in the garage of his apartment house. ASALA claims responsibility. 

April 24, 1982 Dortmund, West Germany 
Several Turkish-owned businesses suffer extensive damage in bomb attacks. The New Armenian Resistance Organization claims responsibility. 

May 4, 1982 Cambridge, Massachusetts 
Orhan Gunduz, the Turkish Honorary Consul General in Boston is assassinated. The murderer is still at large. 

May 10, 1982 Geneva 
Bombs explode at two banks. The attacks are claimed by an Armenian World Punishment Organization . 

May 18, 1982 Toronto 
Four Armenians are arrested for trying to smuggle money out of the country. The money was extorted from Armenians, a common practice throughout the world. In the course of the investigation, it is discovered that the terrorists fire-bombed the house of an Armenian who refused to make his contribution to Armenian terrorism. 

May 18, 1982 Tampa, Florida 
Attack at the office of Nash Karahan, the Turkish Honorary Consul General. 

May 26, 1982 Los Angeles 
A bomb damages the office of Swiss Banking Corporation. The suspects: four Armenians accused of involvement in ASALA. 

May 30, 1982 Los Angeles 
Three members of ASALA are arrested when planting a bomb in the Air Canada cargo-office. 

June 7, 1982 Lisbon 
The Administrative Attache at the Turkish Embassy, Erkut Akbay, and his wife, Nadide Akbay, are assassinated in front of their home. JCAG claims responsibility. 

July 1, 1982 Rotterdam 
Kemalettin Demirer, the Turkish Consul General in Rotterdam, is shot down by four Armenian terrorists. An Armenian Red Army claims responsibility. 

July 21, 1982 Paris 
Sixteen injured in a bomb explosion near a cafe in the Place Saint-Severin. Credit is claimed by the Orly Organization. Orly complains that the French do not treat the arrested Armenian terrorists as political prisoners , but rather as ordinary criminals. 

July 26, 1982 Paris 
Orly is responsible for injuring two women in an explosion in Paris' Pub Saint-Germain . 

August 2, 1982 Paris 
Pierre Gulumian, an Armenian terrorist, is killed when a bomb he is making explodes in his face. 

August 7, 1982 Ankara, Esenboga Airport 
Two Armenian terrorists open fire in a crowded passenger waiting room. One of the terrorists takes more than twenty hostages while the second is apprehended by the police. Nine people are dead and eighty-two injured - some seriously. The surviving terrorist, Levon Ekmekjian is arrested and sentenced. 

August 8, 1982 Paris 
A bomb is defused in time. Orly regrets the discovery. 

August 12, 1982 Paris 
Terrorists open fire on a policeman assigned to protect the offices of the Turkish Tourism Attache. Luckily, he escapes without injury. 

August 27, 1982 Ottawa 
Colonel Atilla Altzkat, the Military Attache at the Turkish Embassy, is assassinated in his car. JCAG claims responsibility. 

September 9, 1982 Burgaz, Bulgaria 
Bora Suelkan, the Administrative Attache at the Turkish Consulate General in Burgaz, is assassinated in front of his home. The assassin leaves a message We shot dead the Turkish diplomat: Combat Units of Justice Against the Armenian Genocide . An anonymous caller claims that the assassination is the work of a branch of the ASALA. 

October 26, 1982 Los Angeles 
Five Armenian terrorists are charged with conspiring to blow up the offices of the Honorary Turkish Consul General in Philadelphia. All belong to the JCAG. 

December 8, 1982 Athens 
Two Armenians on a motorbike throw a bomb at the offices of the Saudi Arabian Airlines. The bomb hits a power pylon, explodes and kills one of the terrorists. His accomplice, an Armenian from Iran named Vahe Kontaverdian is arrested. It is later revealed that ASALA ordered the attack because Saudi Arabia maintains friendly relations with Turkey. 

January 21, 1983 Anaheim, California 
Nine sophisticated pipe bombs are confiscated from an Armenian bakery after one of the detonators goes off and causes fire. 

January 22, 1983 Paris 
Two terrorists attack the offices of THY with hand grenades. No one is injured. ASALA claims credit. 

January 22, 1983 Paris 
French police defuse a powerful explosive device near the THY counter at Orly airport. 

February 2, 1983 Brussels 
The offices of THY are bombed. The New Armenian Resistance Organization claims responsibility. 

February 28, 1983 Luxembourg 
A bomb placed in front of Turkey's diplomatic mission is defused. The Armenian Reporter in New York reports that the New Armenian Resistance Organization is responsible. 

February 28, 1983 Paris 
A bomb explodes at the Marmara Travel Agency. Killed in the explosion is Renee Morin, a French secretary. Four other Frenchmen are wounded. A few minutes after the attack, ASALA claims responsibility. 

March 9, 1983 Belgrade 
Galip Balkar, the Turkish Ambassador to Yugoslavia is assassinated in central Belgrade. His chauffeur, Necati Kayar is shot in the stomach. As the two assailants flee from the scene, they are bravely pursued by Yugoslav citizens. One of the terrorists shoots and wounds a Yugoslav Colonel, and is in turn apprehended by a policeman. The second terrorist opens fire on civilians who are chasing him, killing a young student and wounding a young girl. The two terrorists, Kirkor Levonian and Raffi Elbekian, are tried and sentenced. 

March 31, 1983 Frankfurt 
An anonymous caller threatened to bomb the offices and kill the staff of Tercuman newspaper, a Turkish daily. 

May 24, 1983 Brussels 
Bombs explode in front of the Turkish Embassy's Culture and Information offices and in front of a Turkish-owned travel agency. The Italian director of the travel agency is wounded. ASALA claims credit. 

June 16, 1983 Istanbul 
Armenian terrorists carry out an attack with hand grenades and automatic weapons inside the covered bazaar in Istanbul. Two dead, twenty-one wounded. ASALA claims responsibility. 

July 8, 1983 Paris 
Armenian terrorists attack the offices of the British Council, protesting against the trials of Armenians in London. 

July 14, 1983 Brussels 
Armenian terrorists murder Dursun Aksoy, the Administrative Attache at the Turkish Embassy. ASALA, ARA and JCAG claim responsibility. 

July 15, 1983 Paris 
A bomb explodes in front of the THY counter at Orly airport. Eight dead, more than sixty injured. A 29 years old Syrian-Armenian named Varadjian Garbidjian confesses to having planted the bomb. He admits that the bomb was intended to have exploded once the plane was airborne. 

July 15, 1983 London 
A bomb, similar to the one that exploded at Orly, is defused in time. ASALA claims responsibility for both attacks. 

July 18, 1983 Lyon 
A bomb threat is made by ASALA against the Lyon railroad station. 

July 20, 1983 Lyon 
Panicky evacuation of Lyon's Gare de Perrache following a bomb threat from ASALA. 

July 22, 1983 Teheran 
Orly carries out bomb attacks on the French Embassy and Air France. 

July 27, 1983 Lisbon 
Five Armenian terrorists attempt to storm the Turkish Embassy in Lisbon. Failing to gain access to the chancery, they occupy the residence, taking the Deputy Chief of Mission(DCM) and his family hostage. When explosives being planted by the terrorists go off, Cahide Mzhczoglu, wife of the DCM and four of the terrorists are blown to pieces. The DCM, Yurtsev Mzhczoglu, and his son Atasay are injured. The fifth terrorist is killed in the initial assault by Turkish security forces. One Portuguese policeman is also killed and another wounded. The ARA claims responsibility. 

July 28, 1983 Lyon 
Another bomb threat on Lyon-Perrache railroad station. ASALA claims responsibility. 

July 29, 1983 Teheran 
A threat to blow up the French Embassy in Teheran with a rocket attack causes Iranian officials to increase security at the facility. 

July 31, 1983 Lyon and Rennes 
Bomb threats from Armenian terrorists force the emergency landing of two domestic French flights carrying 424 passengers. 

August 10, 1983 Teheran 
A bomb explodes in an automobile at the French Embassy. ASALA claims credit for the attack. 

August 25, 1983 Bonn 
A whole series of bomb attacks against offices of the French Consulate General claim two lives and leave twenty-three injured. ASALA claims responsibility. 

September 9, 1983 Teheran 
Two French Embassy cars are bombed. One of the bombs injures two embassy staff members. ASALA claims credit. 

October 1, 1983 Marseilles 
A bomb blast destroys the U.S., Soviet and Algerian pavilions at an international trade fair in Marseilles. One person is killed and twenty-six injured. ASALA and Orly claim credit. 

October 6, 1983 Teheran 
A French Embassy vehicle is bombed, injuring two passengers. Orly claims responsibility. 

October 29, 1983 Beirut 
Hand-grenade attack on the French Embassy. One of the ASALA terrorists is arrested. 

October 29, 1983 Beirut 
The Turkish Embassy is attacked by three Armenian terrorists. One of the assailants, Sarkis Denielian, a 19 years old Lebanese-Armenian is apprehended. ASALA claims responsibility. 

February 8, 1984 Paris 
Bomb threat on an Air France flight to New York. 

March 28, 1984 Teheran 
A timed series of attacks is carried out against Turkish diplomats: 
Two Armenian terrorists shoot and seriously wound Sergeant Ismail Pamukcu, employed at the office of the Turkish Military Attache; 
Hasan Servet Oktem, First Secretary of the Turkish Embassy, is slightly wounded as he leaves his home; 
Ibrahim Ozdemir, the Administrative Attache at the Turkish Embassy, alerts police to two suspicious looking men. They turn out to be Armenian terrorists and are arrested; 
In the afternoon of the same day, Iranian police arrest three more Armenian terrorists outside the Turkish Embassy; 
An Armenian terrorist is killed when a bomb he is attempting to plant in the car of the Turkish Assistant Commercial Counselor explodes prematurely. The dead terrorist is later identified as Sultan Gregorian Semaperdan (ASALA). 

March 29, 1984 Los Angeles 
ASALA sends a written threat, saying they will assassinate Turkish athletes who take part in the Olympics. 

April 8, 1984 Beirut 
ASALA issues a communique warning that all flights to Turkey will be considered military targets. 

April 26, 1984 Ankara 
The Turkish Prime Minister, Turgut Ozal, receives a threat warning him that if he goes ahead with a planned visit to Teheran, ASALA will schedule a major terrorist operation against his country. 

April 28, 1984 Teheran 
Two Armenian terrorists riding a motorcycle open fire on Iszk Yonder as he drives his wife, Sadiye Yonder, to the Turkish Embassy where she works. Iszk Yonder is killed, and ASALA claims credit for yet another senseless murder. 

June 20, 1984 Vienna 
A bomb explodes in a car belonging to Erdogan Ozen, Assistant Labor and Social Affairs Counselor at the Turkish Embassy in Vienna. Ozen is killed and five others seriously wounded, including a policeman. ARA terrorists claim credit for the crime. 

June 25, 1984 Los Angeles 
A news agency office in France receives a letter threatening to attack all governments, organizations and companies which assist, in any way whatsoever, Turkey's team at the Los Angeles Olympics. 

August 13, 1984 Lyon 
A bomb explodes in a Lyon train station causing minor damage. ASALA claims credit. 

September 1984 Teheran 
Several Turkish owned firms in Iran come under attack after receiving warning letters informing them that they are to be targeted. The first victim is the Sezai Turkes Company. A Turkish employee is injured while fighting the fire caused by the explosion. A chain of smaller scale acts of intimidation follows. 

September 1, 1984 Teheran 
Iranian authorities expose a plot to assassinate Ismet Birsel, the Turkish Ambassador to Teheran. 

September 3, 1984 Istanbul 
Two Armenian terrorists die as one of their bombs goes off too soon. The ARA claims credit. 

November 19, 1984 Vienna 
Evner Ergun, Deputy Director of the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs of the United Nations, Vienna is assassinated while driving to work. The assassins leave a flag with the initials ARA on his body. 

December 1984 Brussels 
Authorities are able to thwart a bombing attempt at the residence of Selcuk Incesu, Turkish Consul General. 

December 29, 1984 Beirut 
Two French buildings in East Beirut are bombed. ASALA claims credit. 

December 29, 1984 Paris 
Following an ASALA threat to blow up an Air France plane, police increase security at the Charles de Gaulle Airport. 

January 3, 1985 Beirut 
The offices of Agence France Presse are extensively damaged when a bomb explodes. 

March 3, 1985 Paris 
An anonymous caller to Agence France Presse threatens to attack French interests throughout the world upon the indictment of the three terrorists who participated in the Orly attack. 

March 12, 1985 Ottawa 
Three heavily armed terrorists storm the Turkish Embassy, killing a Canadian security guard in the process. After blowing up the front door, the gunmen enter the building. Ambassador Coskun Kzrca manages to escape but suffers extensive injuries. The wife and daughter of the Ambassador, who were taken hostage, are later released, and the terrorists surrender. ARA claims responsibility. 

March 26, 1985 Toronto 
A threat to blow up the city of Toronto's transit system leads to chaos during the rush hour. An Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Our Homeland claims responsibility for the threat. 

November 1985 Brussels 
A special anti-terrorist security squad of the Belgian police exposes and arrests three Armenian terrorists with Portuguese passports. They were planning an attack on Turkish officers at NATO headquarters. 

November 28, 1985 Paris 
French police arrest the leader of the terrorist organization - the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia-Revolutionary Movement (ASALA-RM) - Mr. Monte Melkonian, a U.S. citizen. In Melkonian's apartment, police confiscate weapons, explosive devices, arrival and departure information on Turkish ships scheduled to visit France and a picture of Turkey's Ambassador to France, Adnan Bulak. 

December 1985 Paris 
Forty-one shoppers in two of Paris' leading department stores (Gallerie Lafayette and Printemps) are injured (twelve seriously) when nearly simultaneous bomb explosions rip through the stores. In the ensuing panic, some 10,000 Christmas shoppers flee into the street. The Armenian Reporter, published in New York, reports in its December 12th issue that French law enforcement authorities are concentrating on ASALA as the most likely perpetrator. ASALA later takes credit for the two bombings. 
 
'''Armenian Terror in Caucases'''

 According to our investigations assistance was to 4 million1368 roubles were sent in 1992 from January 10 to February 4 to the Armenian militiary terrorist troops fighting in Khojali on behalf of Armenian diaspora living in CIS countries. A famous American investigator, journalist Thomas Golds who writes articles for "New York Times" and "Sunday Times" published in London, states:"…"One of the truth is that, do not think that Armenian are strong…No, you, Azerbaijanins are weak and powerless in information war.." The journalists in his letter addressed to the UNO on February 12, 2001 and to the president of Russian Federation in connection with 366 moto infantry regiment, which actively assisted the Armenian terrorists in Khojali, writes : "…I am an American journalist, I give information about Azerbaijan not considering Armenian channels, it affects them very irritating. So that a group of Armenians in their letter to the Commission of USA Congress on human rights expressed perplexity concerning to the commission's taking my information about the events in Azerbaijan into consideration. The arguments were pecular: allegedly I am a muslim, I am in friendly relation with the president of Azerbaijan. Of course they did not pass over that my wife is turkish… the commission of course, rejected all arguments "taking for the justice". I think in order to establish an objective picture about Azerbaijan at the residents of my country, it is necessary to use all the channels and possibilities. If they do not exist=it should be created, because today America needs the truth about Azerbaijan.. ". From the materials we investigated, we got such information that on March 29, 1992 the generally major Aleksandr Chindarov coming to see Ballija village with his own eyes in his letter addressed to marshal Shaposhinikov, the Baki commander of the general Armed Forces CIS, notes: translation "…In Karabakh, in Khojali field the hired soldiers coming from Azerbaijan countries participated together with Armenians. Among the dead people I came across with corpses of terrorists of arabian origin. They are the people fighting on the side of Armenians against Azerbaijanis. According to the documents as well as the information of the militiary intelligence, a part of these hired persons are the volunteers coming from Palestinian National Liberation Organization (Al-Fatah, Al-Fat, Harakat, Al-Tahrir, Al-Vatani, Al-Filastini). The real name of this group is the "Black September". According to the information got the members of this detachment were active in passing to Lebanon 3 kg uranium gathered from Russian Federation militiary industrial complex with the help of Yuri Zarvigarov, the commander of 366 regiment. They use it the territory of Iran… "Pisma,Glavnomu. OVS.SNG marshalu aviotii t-u. Shaposhnikivu.E.I 1992,V-3.general major A.I.Chindarov: Archives "OVS"-SNG Moscow. 1992-N-1201-V)". From other investigations it becomes clear that Armenia raised a problem which was discussed at the meeting of the Armenian Secutity Board held on 18 August 1992 on creating a separate volunteer detachment consisting of 520 people for protection of Armenian influence in Karabakh.