==English==
===Etymology===
[[w:Late Latin|Late Latin]][[Category:Late Latin derivations]] [[bagea]], [[bagia]] (meaning [[sign]]), probably of German origin; compare with [[w:Old English language|Anglo-Saxon]][[Category:Anglo-Saxon derivations]] [[beág]], [[beáh]] (meaning [[bracelet]], [[collar]], [[crown]]).
[[w:Old Saxon|Old Saxon]][[Category:Old Saxon derivations]] [[bg-]] in comparison to [[w:Old English language|Anglo-Saxon]][[Category:Anglo-Saxon derivations]] [[bgan]] (meaning to [[bow]], [[bend]], [[w:German language|German]][[Category:German derivations]] [[biegen]]).

<!-- from webster

Badge (Page: 111)
Badge (?), n. [LL. bagea, bagia, sign, prob. of German origin; cf. AS. beág, beáh, bracelet, collar, crown, OS bg- in comp., AS. bgan to bow, bend, G. biegen. See Bow to bend.] 

1. A distinctive mark, token, sign, or cognizance, worn on the person; as, the badge of a society; the badge of a policeman. Tax gatherers, recognized by their official badges. " Prescott. 

2. Something characteristic; a mark; a token. 

Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge. Shak.
3. (Naut.) A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a window or the representation of one. 

-->
===Noun===
'''badge'''
# An [[emblem]], [[worn]] on one's [[clothing]], as an [[insignia]] of some [[rank]], or of the [[membership]] of an [[organization]]
# A small [[nameplate]], [[identifying]] the [[wearer]], and often giving additional [[information]].
# A [[card]], soetimes with a [[barcode]] or [[magnetic strip]], granting [[access]] to a certain [[area]]
#Something characteristic; a [[mark]]; a [[token]]. 
#:''Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge.'' -[[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]][[Category:Shakespeare Quotes]]

====Translations====
*Chinese:
**Simplified Chinese: [[徽章]] (huī zhāng), [[证章]] (zhèng zhāng), [[标记]] (biāo jì), [[象徵]] (xiàng zhēng)
**Traditional Chinese: [[徽章]], [[證章]], [[標記]], [[象徵]]
*{{pl}}: [[plakietka]] ''f'', [[odznaka]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[ID-kort]], [[identifikation]]

===Transitive verb===
'''to badge''' ('''badged''', '''badging''')
#To [[mark]] or [[distinguish]] with a badge. 

====Translations====
*Chinese:
**Simplified Chinese: [[授勋]] (shòu xūn)
**Traditional Chinese: [[授勳]]

===See also===
*[[badger]]

[[io:Badge]]
[[zh:Badge]]