===Noun===
'''Ballistics'''<br>
The science of the study of falling objects, their properties of energy and motion, and of tracing their origins or destinations, as of bullets or missiles.

See:

'''beaten zone''':
1. The entire potential impact area of projectiles fired ballistically from a given point without traversing the aim of the launching device or weapon barrel. 2. The elliptical area of a surface, usually on the ground, circumscribed by a ''cone of fire.'' 3. An area on the ground or on a target defined by actual or potential impacts of ballistic projectiles or missiles.  4. Potential or actual impact area.

'''cone of fire''':
1. The collective volume of potential ballistic flight paths of projectiles or missiles from one fixed point toward another caused by variations in projectiles, propellants, atmospheric drag, gravity, or other properties or forces acting upon each projectile or missile in slightly different ways, causing them to disperse to several points of impact and thus create an ''impact area,'' or ''beaten zone.''

'''defilade''': 
(DOD, NATO) 1. Protection from hostile observation and fire provided by an obstacle such as a hill, ridge, or bank. 2. A vertical distance by which a position is concealed from enemy observation. 3. To shield from enemy fire or observation by using natural or artificial obstacles. 4. The opposite of enfilade.

'''enfilade ''' 
1. Exposure to hostile observation or fire.  2. The property of being located in the ''beaten zone'' of ballistic line-of-sight directed weapons, usually small arms.  3. The property of a target having its long axis coincidental to the long axis of a ''beaten zone''  4. To expose a target or oneself to ballistic fire, as in "moved into enfilade." 5. Lacking the physical protection of defilade; the opposite of defilade.

====Translations====
*{{msg:fi}}: [[ballistiikka]]

[[io:Ballistics]]