==English==
===Noun===
'''barb'''
#The [[point]] that stands backward in an [[arrow]], [[fishhook]], etc., to [[prevent]] it from being easily [[extracted]]. Hence: Anything which stands out with a [[sharp]] point [[obliquely]] or [[crosswise]] to something else. 
#:''Having two barbs or points.'' Ascham.
#A [[beard]], or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it.
#(''Armor'') [[Category:Armor]] (''Corrupt'') [[Armor]] for a horse, corrupted from [[bard]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''': The defensive armor with the horses of the ancient knights ... These are [[frequently]], though [[improperly]], [[stiled]] [[barb]]s. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 29.
#:''The barbel, so called by reason of his barbs, or wattles in his mouth.'' Walton.
#(''Zoology'') One of the side [[branch]]es of a [[feather]], which collectively constitute the [[vane]].
#(''Zoology'') A southern name for the [[kingfish]]es of the eastern and southeastern [[coast]]s of the United States; -- also improperly called [[whiting]].
#(''Botany'') A [[hair]] or [[bristle]] ending in a [[double]] [[hook]].
#The [[Barbary]] horse, a superior [[breed]] introduces from Barbary into [[Spain]] by the [[Moor]]s.
#(''Zoology'') A [[blackish]] or [[dun]] variety of the [[pigeon]], originally brought from Barbary.
#(''Obsolete'') A [[muffler]], worn by [[nun]]s and [[mourner]]s. 
#[[Pap]]s, or little [[projection]]s, of the [[mucous]] [[membrane]], which mark the opening of the [[submaxillary]] [[glands]] under the [[tongue]] in [[horse]]s and [[cattle]]. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are [[inflame]]d and [[swollen]]. [Written also [[barbel]] and [[barble]].]
#(''Obsolete'') A [[bit]] for a horse.
===Verb===
'''to barb''' (barbed, barbing)
#To [[furnish]] with barbs, or with that which will [[hold]] or [[hurt]] like barbs, as an arrow, fishhook, [[spear]], etc.
#:''But rattling storm of arrows barbed with fire.'' Milton.
#(''Armor'') (''Corrupt'') To [[cover]] a horse in armor, corrupted from [[bard]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1592''': And now, in [[stead]] of [[mount]]ing [[barb]]ed [[steed]]s To fright the [[soul]]s of fearful adversaries, He [[caper]]s [[nimbly]] in a lady's chamber... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Richard III'', Act I, Scene I, line 10.
#(''Obsolete'') To [[shave]] or [[dress]] the beard of.
#(''Obsolete'') To [[clip]]; to [[mow]].