== English ==

===Etymology 1===
From Middle English '''bark''' < Old Norse '''[[börkr]]''' (tree bark) < Proto-Germanic '''[[*barkuz]]'''; probably related to Proto-Germanic '''[[*berkjon]]''' (birch) < Proto-Indo-European '''[[*bhergo]]''' < PIE base '''[[*bhereg-]]''' (to gleam, white).
Akin to Danish & Swedish ''bark'', Icelandic ''börkr'', Low German ''borke''.

===Etymology 2===
From Middle English '''[[berken]]''' (to bark) < Old English '''[[beorcan]]''' < Proto-Germanic '''[[*berkanan]]''', of echoic origin. Akin to Icelandic ''berkja''.

===Etymology 3===
From Middle English '''barke''' (boat) < Middle French '''[[barque]]''' < Late Latin '''[[barca]]''' < Vulgar Latin '''[[*barica]]''' < Greek '''[[βάρις]]''' (Egyptian boat) < Coptic '''[[bari]]''' (small boat).

===Pronunciation===

===Homophones===
*[[barque]] <!-- a synonym too -->

=== Noun ===
'''bark'''

#the exterior covering of the trunk and branches of a tree; the rind.
#:Usage: usually uncountable; may be countable when referring to the barks of different types of tree.
#(''medicine'') [[Peruvian Bark]] or [[Jesuits' Bark]], the bark of the [[cinchona]] from which [[quinine]] is produced.
#the loud vocal sound a dog makes.
#(''figurative'') abrupt loud vocal utterance.
# = [[barque]].

====Quotations====
'''figurative: abrupt loud vocal utterance'''
*'''1921?''': Fox’s clumsy figure, negligently dressed in blue and buff, seemed unprepossessing; only his shaggy eyebrows added to the expression of his face; his voice would rise to a bark in excitement. &mdash; ''The Cambridge History of English and American Literature, Vol XI,''

'''barque'''
*'''1880s??''': Whether my bark went down at sea, Whether she met with gales, ... &mdash; Emily Dickinson (1830–86), ''Poems''

==== Related terms ====
* [[ringbark]]
* [[paperbark]]
* [[stringybark]]

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[кора]] (kora) ''f''
*Czech: [[kůra]] ''f''
*Danish: [[bark#Danish|bark]] ''c'' (1)
*Estonian: [[koor]]
*Finnish: [[kaarna]] (1)
*French: [[écorce]] ''f'' (1,2)
*German: [[Rinde]] ''f'', [[Rinden]] ''pl'' (1)
*Hungarian: [[kéreg]] (1), [[ugatás]] (3, 4), [[bárka]] (5)
*Italian: [[scorza]] ''f'', [[corteccia]] ''f'' (1)
*Japanese: [[樹皮]] ([[じゅひ]], juhi), [[木の皮]] ([[きのかわ]], ki no kawá)
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[wanagek]], [[wanagekwag]] ''pl''
*Polish: [[kora]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[casca]] ''f''
*Russian: [[кора]] (korá) ''f'', [[коры]] (korý) ''pl''
*Slovene: [[lubje]] ''n'', [[skorja]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[corteza]] ''f''
*Swahili: [[chamba]] ''sg'', [[vyamba]] ''pl'', [[gome]] ''sg'', [[magome]] ''pl'' (noun 5/6)''
*Swedish: [[bark#Swedish|bark]] ''c''
*Thai: [[เปลือก]] (bpleùùak), [[เปลือกไม้]] (bpleùùak máái)

===Verb===
'''bark'''
#To strip the bark from; to peel.
#To abrade or rub off any outer covering from; as to ''bark'' one's heel.
#To girdle. See [[Girdle]]
#To cover or inclose with bark, or as with bark; as, to ''bark'' the roof of a hut.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[обелвам кора на]] (obelvam kora na) (1)
*Danish [[afbarke]] (1); [[skrubbe]] (2); [[tække]] (4)
*German: [[abrinden]]
*Japanese: [[樹皮を剥ぐ]] ([[じゅひをはぐ]], juhi o hágu) (1)
*Russian: [[окоривать]] (okorivát'), [[окорять]] (okorját')
*Spanish: [[descortezar]]
*Swedish: [[barka]] (1)

===Noun===
'''bark'''

#The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similar sound made by some other animals.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[лай]] (laj) ''m''
*Danish [[gøen]] ''c''
*Finnish: [[haukku]]
*French: [[aboiement]] ''m''
*German: [[Gebell]] ''n''
*Italian: [[abbaiamento]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[吠え声]] ([[ほえごえ]], hoegóe)
*Latin: [[latratus]] ''m''
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[migiwin]]
*Portuguese: [[latido]] ''m''
*Russian: [[лай]] (laj) ''m''
*Spanish: [[ladrido]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[skall]] ''n''

=== Verb ===
'''to bark'''
#To make a short, loud, explosive noise with the vocal organs; &mdash; said of some animals, but especially of dogs.
#To make a clamor; to make importunate outcries.
#:''They ''bark'', and say the Scripture maketh heretics.<br>''Tyndale.
#:<br>
#:''Where there is the ''barking'' of the belly, there no other commands will be heard, much less obeyed.<br>''Fuller.
# To speak sharply.
#: ''The sergeant barked an order.''

====Related terms====
*[[barking]] <!--noun and adj; "barking mad" would be a related term under "barking"-->

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[лая]] (laja)
*Danish: [[gø]] (1), [[råbe op]] (2)
*Dutch: [[blaffen]]
*Estonian: [[haukuma]]
*Finnish: [[haukkua]] (1,3)
*French: [[aboyer]]
*German: [[bellen]](1), [[brüllen]] (3)
*Hebrew: [[לנבוח]] (lin'bo'akh) (1)
*Italian: [[abbaiare]] (1)
*Japanese: [[吠える]] ([[ほえる]], hoéru)
*Korean: [[짖다]] (jitda)
*Latin: [[latro]] (1,3), [[baubor]] (1)
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[migi]]
*Portuguese: [[latir]]
*Russian: [[лаять]] / [[залаять]] (lájat' / zalájat')
*Slovene: [[lajati]] (1,3)
*Spanish: [[ladrar]] (1,3)
*Swahili: [[-bwekea]]
*Swedish: [[skälla]] (1)
*Thai: [[เห่า]] (hào)

===Noun===
'''bark''', also [[barque]]

#Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a sailing vessel or boat of any kind. ''Byron.''
#(''Nautical'') A three-masted vessel, having her foremast and mainmast square-rigged, and her mizzenmast schooner-rigged.

====Translations====
*French: [[barque]] ''f''
*Danish: bark (2)
*German: Bark ''f'', [[Barke]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[barca]] ''f'', [[barco]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[barca]] ''f'', [[barco]] ''m''

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

== Dutch ==
===Noun===
'''bark''' ''f'' (Plural: [[barken]], diminutive: [[barkje]])

# larger sailing boat

----
== Polish ==

===Noun===
'''bark''' ''m'' (''genitive'' [[barku]], ''plural'' [[barki]])

# [[shoulder]]
# [[barque]]
-----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''bark''' ''c'' (''uncountable, definite form'' [[barken]])

#[[bark#English|bark]]; Covering of the trunk of a tree.

[[pl:bark]] [[sv:bark]]