==English==
===Etymology===
Old English bataille, bataile, French bataille battle, OF., battle, battalion, from Latin battalia, battualia, the  fighting and fencing exercises of soldiers and gladiators, from batuere to strike, beat. Compare with {Battalia}, 1st {Battel}, and see {Batter}, v. t. 

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] //

===Noun===
# A general action, fight, or encounter, in which all the  divisions of an army are or may be engaged; an engagement; a combat.
# A struggle; a contest; as, the battle of life.
#:    The whole intellectual battle that had at its center the best poem of the best poet of that day. --H. Morley.
# A division of an army; a battalion. [Obs.]
#:    The king divided his army into three battles. --Bacon.
#:    The cavalry, by way of distinction, was called the battle, and on it alone depended the fate of every action. --Robertson.
# The main body, as distinct from the van and rear; battalia. [Obs.] --Hayward.
#:    Note: Battle is used adjectively or as the first part of a self-explaining compound; as, battle brand, a ``brand'' or sword used in battle; battle cry; battlefield; battle ground; battlearray; battle song.

====Related Terms====
*[[Battle piece]] = a painting, or a musical composition, representing a battle.
*[[Battle royal]] = (a) A fight between several gamecocks, where the one that stands longest is the victor. --Grose. (b) A contest with fists or cudgels in which more than two are engaged; a mêlée. --Thackeray.
*[[Drawn battle]] = one in which neither party gains the victory.
*[[To give battle]] = to attack an enemy.
*[[To join battle] = to meet the attack; to engage in battle.
*[[Pitched battle] = one in which the armies are previously drawn up in form, with a regular disposition of the forces.
*[[Wager of battle]]

====Synonyms====
[[Conflict]]; [[encounter]]; [[contest]]; [[action]].

====Usage Notes===
[[Battle]], [[Combat]], [[Fight]], [[Engagement]]: These words agree in denoting a close encounter between contending parties. Fight is a word of less dignity than the others. Except in poetry, it is more naturally applied to the encounter of a few individuals, and more commonly an accidental one; as, a street fight. A combat is a close encounter, whether between few or many, and is usually premeditated. A battle is commonly more general and prolonged. An engagement supposes large numbers on each side, engaged or intermingled in the conflict.<BR><small>(material dates from 1913)</small>
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->


===Intransitive Verb===
To join in battle; to contend in fight; as, to battle over  theories.

===Transitive Verb===
To assail in battle; to fight.