==Translingual==
===Symbol===
'''Be'''<br>(''chemistry'') symbol for [[beryllium]]

----

==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[beon]]''. Be, been come from the root "become", am, is, are from the root "exist", was, were from the root "stay".
===Conjugation===
<table border=1>
<tr><th>  <th>Present<br>indicative<th>Past<br>indicative
<th>Present<br>subjunctive<th>Past<br>subjunctive</tr>
<tr><td>I</td><td>am</td><td>was</td><td>be</td><td>were</td>
<tr><td>thou (''obsolete'')</td><td>art</td><td>wast</td><td>be</td><td>wert</td>
<tr><td>he/she/it</td><td>is</td><td>was</td><td>be</td><td>were</td>
<tr><td>we</td><td>are</td><td>were</td><td>be</td><td>were</td>
<tr><td>you</td><td>are</td><td>were</td><td>be</td><td>were</td>
<tr><td>they</td><td>are</td><td>were</td><td>be</td><td>were</td>
</table>
''Infinitive:'' '''to be'''<br/>
''Past participle:'' '''been'''<br/>
''Present participle:'' '''being'''<br/>
''Imperative:'' '''be'''

===Intransitive Verb===
'''to be'''
<!-- I've commented this next out because it's really no different from any other verb.  You use "going ''infinitive''" or "will ''stem of infinitive''" for future, present for present, past or past participle for past.  In fact, the statement given is misleading: ''is'', ''am'' and ''are'' are all present tense, ''was'' and ''were'' are both past, and there may be other quibbles. -->
<!-- '''Be''' is ordinarily used in the sense of a [[future]] event or transaction that will or has not yet taken place, while "''[[is]]''" is typically used for something that is happening now or otherwise used in the [[present tense]], and "''[[was]]''" or ''"[[been]]"'' is used for an event that did happen or is referenced in the [[past tense]].  -->

# To occupy a place <!-- cf. Spanish estar vs. ser -->
#:''The cat is in the bag, it will still be in the bag tomorrow.''
# To occur, to take place
#: ''When and where is the test?  It will be tomorrow, in room 5.''
# To [[exist]] 
#: ''To be, or not to be, that is the question.'' &mdash; Shakespeare, ''Hamlet''

===Copular verb===
'''to be'''

<!-- Probably need some mention of metaphor here -->
# Indicates that the subject and object are the same.
#: ''Two plus two is four.'' or ''Two plus two are four.''
#: ''Ignorance is bliss.''
# Indicates that the subject plays the role of the object.
#: ''François Mitterrand was president of France from 1981 to 1995'' <!-- Won't have to change this when Chirac leaves office -->
# Connects a noun to an adjective describing it.
#: ''The sky is blue.''
# Indicates that the subject has the qualities described by a noun or noun phrase. <!-- not quite right? -->
#: ''The sky is a deep blue today.''
#: ''The street was a confusion of vendors and shoppers.''

===Auxiliary verb=== <!-- more to do here -->
'''to be'''

# With present participle, indicates a continuing activity.
#:''The man is walking''
# In past tense with past participle, indicates a completed activity.
#:''The boy was killed.''
# In present tense with past participle, indicates a recurring activity.
#:''The staff meeting is held every Monday at 1:00.''
<!-- What about "your efforts are wasted on him" or "the train is gone"? -->

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[съм]]
*[[Breton]]: [[bezañ]], [[kaout]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[haver]]
*Dutch: [[zijn]], [[hebben]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[esti]], [[havi]]
*French: [[être]], [[avoir]]
*German: [[sein]], [[haben]]
*Portuguese: [[ser]], [[estar]]
*Spanish: [[haber]]

====Translations====
'''Caution''' ''This verb is fraught with irregularities of both form and usage in many languages.  Strict literal translations should be viewed with suspicion.''
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*[[Breton]]: [[bezañ]]
*Bulgarian: [[съм]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[ser]], [[estar]]
*Chinese: [[是]] (shì), [[有]], [[在]], [[係]] (hai6) ([[Cantonese]])
*Danish: [[være]], [[have]]
*Dutch: [[zijn]], [[wezen]] (archaic, used in certain idioms and expressions)
*[[Ekspreso]]: [[esen]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[esti]]
*Estonian: [[olema]]
*Finnish: [[olla]]
*French: [[être]]
*German: [[sein]]
*Greek: [[είμαι]]
*Hindi: [[होना]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*[[Interlingua]]: [[esser]], [[ser]] 
*Italian: [[essere]]
*Japanese:
** (''auxiliary'', ''copula'') [[だ]] (da, ''informal''), [[です]] (desu, ''formal'')
** (''existence'') [[有る]] (ある, aru, ''inanimate''); [[居る]] (いる, iru, ''animate'')
*Latin: [[esse]] (''usu. cited by its 1st p. sng. form'' [[sum]])
*Macedonian: [[сум]]
*Norwegian: [[være]]
*Polish: [[by&#263;]]
*Portuguese: ''intransitive'' '''1''' [[ser]], [[existir]], '''2''' [[estar]]; ''copular'' '''1~3''' [[ser]]; ''auxiliary'' '''1''' [[ser]] (with passive voice), '''2''' [[estar]] (with active voice)
*Romanian: [[fi]]
*Russian: [[быть]] (byt')
*Spanish: [[ser]], [[estar]] (''note'' : ''ser'' and ''estar'' are not employed in the same cases)
*Swedish: [[vara]]
|}
|}

----

==Hungarian==
===[[Coverb]]===
'''be-''', '''be'''

# [[in]], [[into]]
#:'''''Be'''sz&aacute;lltam a kocsiba.''

----

== Balinese ==
'''be'''

# [[fish]]
# [[meat]], [[fish]], [[tofu]], [[egg]] (everything that is eaten with rice exept vegetables)

----

==Latin==
===Alternative spellings===
[[bee]]
===interjection===
'''be'''

# "baa", sound made by sheep

----
==Swedish==
===Verb===
'''be'''

{| border="1"
|--
|present tense || '''be''' ([[bedja]])
|--
|past tense || [[bad]]
|--
|past participle || [[bett]]
|--
|present particible || [[bedjande]]
|--
|}


# [[ask]] for, request someone else to do something
# to [[pray]]
# to [[beg]], to plead with someone for help or for a favor.

----
== Lithuanian ==
=== Particle ===
'''be'''

# (shows absence of smth) [[without]]
# [[besides]]; [[but]], [[except]]

[[es:be]]
[[it:be]]
[[ja:be]]
[[pl:Be]]