==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[beatan]]''. Confer Old High German ''[[bozan]]'', Old Norse ''[[bauta]]''.
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[Pronunciation guide|IPA]]: /biːt/
*[[Pronunciation guide|SAMPA]]: /bi:t/
*'''Homophones''': [[beet]]

===Noun===
'''beat''' (''plural:'' '''beats''')
====Countable====
#a [[pulsation]] or [[throb]]
#a [[pulse]] on the [[beat level]], the [[metric]] level at which pulses are heard as the basic unit. Thus a beat is the basic [[time]] unit of a piece. (DeLone et. al. (Eds.), 1975, chap. 3)
#a [[rhythm]]

===Verb===
'''to beat''' ('''beats''', '''beat''', '''beaten''', '''beating''')
====Transitive====
# to [[hit]]; to [[knock]]; to [[pound]]; to [[strike]]
#:''As soon as she heard the news, she went into a rage and '''beat''' the wall with her fists until her knuckles bled.''
## to [[strike]] or [[pound]] [[repeatedly]], usually in some sort of [[rhythm]]
##:''He danced hypnotically while she '''beat''' the atabaque.''
# to [[win]] against; to [[defeat]]; to do [[better]] than, [[outdo]], or [[excel]] someone in a particular, [[competitive]] [[event]]
#:''Jessica had little trouble '''beating''' John in tennis. He lost five games in a row.''
#:''No matter how quickly Joe finished his test, Roger always '''beat''' him.''
=====Translations=====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
*Dutch: [[slaan]], [[kloppen]]
*French: [[battre]]
*Indonesian: [[pukul]], [[hantam]], [[hajar]], [[ketuk]], [[ketok]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
*Japanese: [[殴る]] ([[なぐる]], naguru), [[叩く]] ([[たたく]], tataku)
*Latin: [[pello]] (1,2)
*Swedish: [[slå]]
|}
|}

====Intransitive====
#(''nautical'') To [[sail]] to [[windward]] using a [series]] of [[alternate]] [[tack]]s across the [[wind]]

===Related terms===
[[beat down]], [[beater]], [[beat generation]], [[beat senseless]], [[beat some sense into]], [[beat to the punch]], [[beat to quarters]], [[beat up]], [[deadbeat]], [[drumbeat]], [[heartbeat]]

===References===
*DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465.

----

== Volapük ==
=== Noun ===
'''beat'''

# [[happiness]]

[[it:beat]]
[[ru:Beat]]