See also: [[Bit]]

==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*bĭt, /bɪt/, /<tt>bIt</tt>/

=== Etymology ===
Likely to be from same source as Old English (Anglo-Saxon) ''[[bita]]'' and ''[[bite#Old English|bite]]'', or from those words themselves; the monetary sense derives from Caribbean or South US practice of cutting Spanish dollars into eighths.

=== Noun ===
'''bit''' (''plural'' '''[[bits]]''')

#<!--DefA-->A piece of metal placed in a horse's mouth and connected to reins to direct the animal. 
#<!--DefB-->A rotary cutting tool fitted to a drill, used to make holes. 
#<!--DefC-->An eighth of a dollar.
#:''A [[quarter]] is two bits.''
#<!--DefD-->(''dated UK'') A coin of a specified value.
#:''threepenny bit''
#<!--DefE-->A small piece of something.
#:''There were bits of paper all over the floor.''
#:''I'd like a little bit of cake, please.''

====Synonyms====
*<!--DefC-->(''coin''): [[coin]], [[piece]]
*<!--DefE-->(''small piece''): [[morsel]] (''of food''), [[piece]], [[scrap]]

==== Translations ====
<!--DefA-->'''metal in horse's mouth'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: bit ''n''
*German: [[Gebiß]] ''n'', [[Mundstück]] ''n''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!--DefB-->'''rotary cutting tool'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: bit ''m''
*German: [[Bohrer]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[сверло]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

<!--DefC-->'''eighth of a dollar'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!--DefD-->'''coin'''
''See'' '''[[coin]]'''

<!--DefE-->'''small piece'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[beetje]], [[hapje]] (of food)
*French: petit [[morceau]] ''m''
*German: [[Bißchen]] ''n'', [[Wenig]] ''n'', [[Bissen]] ''m'', [[Stück]] ''n'', [[Stückchen]] ''n'', [[Happen#German|Happen]] ''m'' (''of food'')
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ちょっと]] (chotto) / [[少々]] ([[しょうしょう]], shōshō) / [[少し]] ([[すこし]], sukoshi) (4) 
*Russian: [[кусок]] ''m'' 
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*[[Breton]]: [[gweskenn]] ''f'' -où (1), un [[tamm]]ig (4)
*Bulgarian: [[мундщук]] ''m'' (1), [[свредел]] ''m'' (2), [[късче]] ''n'' (4)
*Indonesian: [[sedikit]] (4)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[morso]] (1), [[puncta]] (2), [[pauco]], [[poco]], [[morsello]] (4)
*Portuguese: [[morso]] ''m'', [[bocado]] ''m'', [[bocal]] ''m'' (1); [[broca]] ''f'', [[verruma]] ''f'', [[pua]] ''f'' (2), [[pouco]] ''m'', [[bocado]] ''m'' (4)

==== Verb ====
'''bit'''

#<!--DefF-->Past tense of '''to [[bite]]'''
#:''Your dog bit me!''

====Derived terms====
*[[a bit]]<!--adverb: as in "I like it a bit, but not much"-->
*[[bit-banger]]
*[[bit by bit]]
*[[bit part]]
*[[bits and bobs]]
*[[bits and pieces]]
*[[brace and bit]]
*[[champ at the bit]]<!--not "chomp"-->
*[[do one's bit]]
*[[fall to bits]]
*[[itty-bitty]]
*[[not a bit]], [[not one bit]]
*[[quite a bit]]
*[[snakebit]]
*[[two-bit]]

----
=== Etymology ===
Coined by J. W. Tukey in 1948 as an abbreviation of [[binary digit]], probably influenced by connotations of "small portion".  Compare '''[[byte]]''' and '''[[nibble]]'''

=== Noun ===
'''bit''' (''plural'' '''bits''')

#<!--DefF-->(''mathematics, computing'') A [[binary digit]], generally represented as a 1 or 0.
#<!--DefG-->(''computing'') The smallest unit of storage in a [[digital]] [[computer]], consisting of a binary digit.
#<!--DefH-->(''information theory, cryptography'') Any [[datum]] that may take on one of exactly two values.

==== Translations ====
<!--DefF-->'''binary digit'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: bit ''m''
*French: bit ''m''
*German: [[Bit]] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ビット]] (bitto)
{{bottom}}

<!--DefG-->'''smallest unit of storage'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: bit ''m''
*German: [[Bit]] ''n''
*Japanese: [[ビット]] (bitto)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!--DefH-->'''datum that may take on one of exactly two values'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: bit ''m''
*German: [[Bit]] ''n''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Bulgarian: [[бит]] ''m'' (5,6)
*Indonesian: bit (5,6)
*[[Interlingua]]: bit (5,6)
*Portuguese: bit ''m'' (5,6)

====Derived terms====
*[[bit-depth]]
*[[bitwise]]
*[[hidden bit]]
*[[high-order bit]]
*[[least significant bit]]
*[[most significant bit]]

=== See also ===

*[[w:bit|Wikipedia article on bits]]

----
==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''bit''' ''n''

#<!--DefA-->bit (''for a horse'')
#<!--DefB-->bit (''rotary cutting tool'')
#<!--DefF-->bit (''binary digit'')
#<!--DefG-->bit (''unit of storage'')
#<!--DefH-->bit (''datum with two possible values'')

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''bit'''

#<!--DefE-->bit (''small piece'')
#<!--DefF-->bit (''binary digit'')
#<!--DefG-->bit (''unit of storage'')

====Conjugations====
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 
| bgcolor=#FFFFF0 colspan=5 align=center | '''Common''' 
|- 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
! rowspan=2 | 
| colspan=2 | ''Singular'' 
| colspan=2 | ''Plural'' 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''Definite'' 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''Definite'' 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Nominative'' 
| [[bit]] 
| [[biten]] 
| [[bitar]] 
| [[bitarna]] 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Genitive'' 
| [[bits]] 
| [[bitens]] 
| [[bitars]] 
| [[bitarnas]]
|}

===Verb===
'''bit'''

#<!--DefI-->''imperative of'' '''[[bita]]'''

===See also===
*[[pusselbit]]
*[[sockerbit]]

[[Category:Mathematics]]
[[Category:Computing]]
[[Category:Cryptography]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[cs:bit]]
[[et:bit]]
[[fr:bit]]
[[io:bit]]
[[pl:bit]]
[[tr:bit]]