==English==
===Pronunciation===
*bīt, /baɪt/, /<tt>baIt</tt>/
*:'''Homophones''': [[bight]], [[byte]]
*:[[Rhymes:English:-aɪt|Rhymes: -aɪt]]

===Transitive verb===
'''bite''', '''bit''', '''bitten'''

# To cut off a piece by clamping the teeth.
#: ''As soon as you bite that sandwich, you'll know how good it is.''
# To hold something by clamping one's teeth.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[bijten]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[mordi]]
*Finnish: [[purra]]
*French: [[mordre]]
*German: [[beißen]]
*[[Guaraní]]: [[su'u]]
*Indonesian: [[gigit]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[morder]]; [[piccar]] (as of snakes)
*Japanese: [[噛む]] (かむ, kamu)
*Portuguese: [[morder]]; [[picar]] (as of snakes)
*Spanish: [[morder]], [[picar]]
*Swedish: [[bita]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[su'u]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''bite''', '''bit''', '''bitten'''

# To attack with the teeth.
#: ''That dog is about to bite!''
# To take hold; to establish firm contact with.
#: ''I needed snow chains to make the tires bite.''
# (''of a fish'') To bite a baited hook or other lure and thus be caught.
#: ''Are the fish biting today?''
# To fall for a deception.
#: ''I've planted the story.  Do you think they'll bite?''
# (''of an insect'') To sting.
#: ''These mosquitoes are really biting today!''
# (''slang'') To lack quality; to be worthy of derision.
#: ''This music really bites.''


==== Translations ====
*Dutch: [[bijten]]
*Spanish: [[morder]], [[picar el pez]]
*Swedish: [[bita]]

=== Noun ===
'''bite'''

# The [[wound]] left behind after having been [[bitten]]
#: ''That snake bite really hurt!''
# A piece of food of a size that would be produced by biting; a mouthful
#: ''There were only a few bites left on the plate.''
# (''slang'') Something unpleaseant.
#: ''That's really a bite!''

==== Translations ====
*Dutch: [[beet]] ''m''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[mordo]]
*Finnish: [[purema]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[morsura]]; [[piccatura]] (as of snakes)
*Portuguese: [[mordida]] ''f'', [[mordedura]] ''f''; [[picada]] ''f'', [[picadura]] ''f'' (as of snakes)
*Spanish: [[mordedura]] ''f'', [[mordisco]] ''m'', [[picadura]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[bett]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[ãîbora]] (t-)

===Related Terms===
*[[bit]]
*[[bite in the ass]]
*[[bite-sized]]
*[[biter]]
*[[bitten]]
*[[in one bite]]
*[[bite me]]

----

==French==
Also [[bitte]]
===Noun===
# {{frslang}} [[Nob]], penis[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:bite]]
[[it:bite]]
[[fi:Bite]]