==English==
===Homophones===
*[[bloc]]

===Noun===
'''block'''

#A substantial, approximately [[cuboid]], piece of any substance.
#:''block of ice''
#:''block of stone''
#A [[building]] containing [[several]] [[apartments]], [[house]]s, [[business]]es, etc and [[demarcate]]d by streets.
#:''block of flats''
#:''I'm going for a walk around the block.''
#The distance from one street to another in a [[city]] that is built to a [[grid]] pattern.
#:''The place you are looking for is two blocks in that direction.''
#A cuboid of wood, plastic or other material used as a [[base]] on which to cut something.
#:''Anne Boleyn placed her head on the block and awaited her execution.''
#A set of sheets (of paper) joined together at one end.
#:''block of 100 tickets''
#Something that [[prevent]]s something from [[passing]].
#:''There's a block in the pipe that means the water can't get through.''
#{{Cricket}} A [[shot]] played by holding he [[bat]] [[vertically]] in the [[path]] of the [[ball]], so that it loses [[momentum]] and drops to the [[ground]].
#(''nautical'') A [[wooden]] [[case]] with one or more [[sheave]]s, used with [[rope]]s as part of the [[rigging]] of a [[sailing]] [[ship]]
#(''slang'') The [[human]] [[head]]
#* I'll knock your block off

====Translations====
*[[Catalan]]: (2): [[illa]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[大塊]]/[[大块]] (dakuai) [[大樓]]/[[大楼]], [[大廈]]/[[大厦]], [[街區]]/[[街区]], [[障礙物]]/[[障碍物]], [[阻礙]]/[[阻碍]]
*Dutch: [[blok]]
*Finnish: (2): [[kortteli]]
*French: (1): [[bloc#French|bloc]] ''m''; (2): [[pâté]] ''m''; (3): [[rue]] ''f''; (4) : [[billot]] ''m''; (6): [[obstruction]] ''f''
*German: (1, 4): Block ''m'', [[Klotz]] ''m''; (2): [[Häuserblock]] ''m''; (6) [[Blockade]] ''f''
*Italian: (1): [[blocco]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[塊]] ([[かたまり]]), [[まな板]] ([[まないた]]), [[区画]] (くかく), [[障害物]] (しょうがいぶつ), [[断頭台]] (だんとうだい), [[アパート]]
*Spanish: (2): [[manzana]] ''f''

===Transitive verb===
'''to block''' (''[[present participle]]'' '''blocking''', ''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''blocked''')
#To fill (something) so that it is not possible to pass.
#:''The pipe is blocked.''
#To prevent (something or someone) from passing.
#:''You're blocking the road - I can't get through.''
#To prevent (something from happening or someone from doing something).
#:''His plan to take over the business was blocked by the boss.''
#Sports: A defensive technique
#:''He blocked the basketball player's shot.''
#:''The linebackers tried to block the blitz.''
# (''theater'') To specify the positions and movements of the actors.
#: ''It was very difficult to block this scene convincingly.''
#{{Cricket}} To hit the ball with a block.


===Intransitive verb===
#{{Cricket}} To play a block shot.

===Related terms===
*[[apartment block]]
*[[around the block]]
*[[block capitals]]
*[[block of flats]]
*[[block party]]
*[[block vote]]
*[[blockage]]
*[[blockbuster]]
*[[blockhead]]
*[[blocking]]
*[[building block]]
*[[chopping block]]
*[[city block]]
*[[from the block]]
*[[mental block]]
*[[stage blocking]]

[[it:block]]