==English==
===Etymology===
From Proto-Germanic ''*bultas'', perhaps from Proto-Indo-European base ''*bheld-'' "to knock, strike".

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-bolt.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
'''bolt''' ([[bolts]])

#A (usually) metal [[fastener]] consisting of a [[cylindrical]] body, partially or completely [[threaded]], and a larger head; it is inserted into an [[unthreaded]] hole (unlike a [[screw]]) up to the head, and a [[nut]] is threaded on the other end.
#A sliding pin or bar in a [[lock]] or [[latch]] mechanism.
#A [[bar]] of [[wood]] or [[metal]] dropped in [[hooks]] on a door and adjoining walls, or between the two sides of a double door, to prevent the door(s) from being forced [[open]].
#A [[lightning]] [[spark]], i.e. lightning ''bolt'': a ''bolt'' from the blue.
#A large roll of material, e.g. fabric: a ''bolt'' of cloth.
#{{nautical}} The [[standard]] [[measurement]] of [[length]] of [[canvas]] for use at [[sea]]; 39 [[yard]]s

====Translations====
*CJKV Characters: [[閂]], [[闩]]
*Chinese: [[螺栓]]
*French: [[boulon]] ''m'' (1)
*Hungarian: [[csavar]] (1), [[csapszeg]] (1), [[zárnyelv]] (2), [[retesz]](3), [[villámcsapás]] (4)

====Derived words====
*[[bolthole]]

====See also====
*[[nut]]
*[[screw]]

===Verb===
'''to bolt''' ([[bolts]], [[bolted]], [[bolting]])

#To [[connect]] or [[assemble]] pieces using a bolt.
#:'''''Bolt''' the vice to the bench.''
#To [[secure]] a [[door]] by locking or barring it.
#:'' '''Bolt''' the door.''
#To [[accelerate]] suddenly.
#:''The horse '''bolted'''.''
#To [[escape]].
#Of a plant, to [[grow]] quickly; to go to [[seed]].
#:''Lettuce and spinach will '''bolt''' as the weather warms up.''

====Translations====
*Hungarian: [[csavaroz]] (1), [[elreteszel]] (2), [[elzár]] (2), [[zárnyelv]] (2)

----

==Hungarian==
===Noun===
'''bolt'''

# [[shop]]

[[it:bolt]]
[[Category:Hungarian nouns]]