{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Noun===
'''brass'''
# An [[alloy]] of [[copper]] and [[zinc]] used in many industrial and [[plumbing]] applications.
# (''music'') A class of [[wind instrument]]s, usually made of brass, that use [[vibration]]s of the [[player]]'s [[lip]]s to produce [[sound]].
# Spent shell casings; the part of the cartridge left over after bullets have been fired. (usually made of brass).
#(''colour'') the colour of brass.
#:<table><tr><td>brass colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#C9AE5D" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
# (''military'') High-ranking [[officers]].  May be singular or plural.
#: ''The brass are not going to like this.''
#: ''The brass is not going to like this.''
# Brave or foolhardy attitude.
#: ''You've got a lot of brass telling me to do that!''
#(slang) [[Money]] (also [[brass in pocket]])
#(slang) [[Prostitute]] (from [[brass nail]])

====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[messing]] ''n'' (1), [[brons]] ''n'' (1), [[geelkoper]] ''n'' (1), [[brutaliteit]] ''f'' (5)
*[[French]]: [[laiton]] ''m'' (1), cuivre (vert) ''m'' (1), [[cuivre]] ''m'' (2)
*[[Polish]]: [[mosiądz]] ''n'' (1), [[blacha]] ''f'', [[instrument]] [[blaszany]] ''m'' (2), [[łuska]] ''f'' (3)

===Adjective===
'''brass'''
# (''not comparable'') Made of brass.  <!-- Actually attributive noun? -->
#(''colour'') of the colour of brass.
#(''slang'') bad, annoying.

====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[messing]] (2), [[bronzen]] (2), [[geelkoperen]] (2)
*[[Polish]]: [[mosiężny]] ''m''

===Derived terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brass balls]]
*[[brass band]]
*[[brass hat]]
*[[brass instrument]]
*[[brass knuckles]]
*[[brass monkey]]
*[[brass neck]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brass rat]]
*[[brass ring]]
*[[brass section]]
*[[brass tacks]]
*[[brassbound]]
*[[brass-collar]]
*[[brassed off]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brass-monkey weather]]
*[[brass-rubbing]]
*[[brassware]]
*[[brassy]]
*[[high brass]]
*[[not have a brass farthing]]
*[[top brass]]
|}
|}
===Related terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[braze]]
*[[brazen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brazier]]
*[[bronze]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[BSB]]
|}
|}
===See also===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[althorn]]
*[[chalcography]]
*[[cornet]]
*[[euphonium]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[flugelhorn]]
*[[French horn]]
*[[mellophone]]
*[[Muntz metal]]
*[[saxhorn]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[sousaphone]]
*[[trombone]]
*[[trumpet]]
*[[tuba]]
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]
|}
|}
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:Brass]]
[[et:Brass]]
[[fr:brass]]
[[io:Brass]]
[[it:brass]]
[[pl:Brass]]