==English==
===Pronunciation===
*bro͞o, /bruː/, /bru:/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-uː|Rhymes: -uː]]
===Etymology===
From {{OE.}} [[brewen]] and {{AS.}} [[breowan]]/[[brewan]]; akin to Danish [[brouwen]], Old High German [[priuwan]], Middle High German [[briuwen]], br?wen, German [[brauen]], Icelandic [[brugga]], Swedish [[brygga]], Danish [[brygge]].  Perhaps from {{L.}} [[defrutum]] ''must boiled down'' and {{Gr.}} [[]] ''a kind of beer''. The original meaning seems to have been to prepare by heat.
===Transitive verb===
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
{{En-infl-reg-consonant|brew||}}
<!--*[[imp.]] & [[p. p.]]: Brewed 
*[[p. pr.]] & [[vb. n.]]:Brewing -->

#(''obsolete'') To [[boil]] or [[seethe]]; to [[cook]]. 
#(''Commonwealth English'') To prepare a [[teapot]] of [[tea]].
#(''Commonwealth English'') To put the [[kettle]] on for a cup of tea. 
#To prepare, as beer or other liquor (or even ginger beer, shandy), from malt and hops, or from other materials, by steeping, boiling, and fermentation.
#:'''quotations''':
#:*"She brews good ale." &mdash; Shakespeare, ''The Two Gentlemen of Verona'', act III, scene I
#To prepare by steeping and mingling; to concoct.
#:'''quotations''':
#:*"Go, '''brew''' me a pottle of sack finely." &mdash; Shakespeare
#To foment or prepare, as by brewing; to contrive; to plot; to concoct; to hatch; as, to brew mischief.
#:'''quotations''':
#:*"Hence with thy brewed enchantments, foul deceiver!" &mdash; Milton.

===Intransitive verb===
{{En-infl-reg-consonant|brew||}}
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
# To attend to the business, or go through the processes, of brewing or making beer.
#:'''quotations''':
#:*"I wash, wring, '''brew''', bake, scour." &mdash; Shakespeare
# To be in a state of preparation; to be mixing, forming, orgathering; as, a storm brews in the west.
#:'''quotations''':
#:*"There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest." &mdash; Shakespeare

===Noun===
[[Category:English nouns]]
'''brew''' (''plural'' [[brews]])
# The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed; a [[brewage]]
#:'''quotations''':
#:*"" &mdash; Bacon.
#(''Commonwealth English'') A cup of tea.
#(''Commonwealth English'') The act of making a cup of tea

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[brouwsel]] ''n''
===See also===
* [[brewer]]