==English==
=== Noun ===
'''brush''' ([[brushes]])

# An [[implement]] with a handle, and a head with multiple more or less flexible [[bristle]]s, used for any of various purposes including [[clean]]ing, [[paint]]ing, and arranging [[hair]].
# A spring-loaded electrical contact that connects the [[rotor]] and [[armature]] of a motor or generator.
# The act of brushing something.
#: ''She gave her hair a quick brush.''
# ''(uncountable):'' Wild [[vegetation]], generally larger than grass but smaller than trees.
# The tail of a fox.

====Related terms====
*[[bottle brush]]
*[[bristle brush]]
*[[broad brush]]
*[[brushfire]]
*[[hairbrush]]
*[[paintbrush]]
*[[scrub brush]]
*[[shaving brush]]
*[[toothbrush]]
*[[underbrush]]
*[[wire brush]]

====Translations====
{{checktrans}}
*'''Bavarian''': [[Bembsl]] ''m'' <!-- definition not verified -->
*'''Breton''': [[broust]] ''m'' -où <!-- definition not verified -->
*'''Danish''': [[børste]] ''c''
*'''Dutch''': [[borstel]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[verfborstel]] (1), [[haarborstel]] (1), [[tandenborstel]] (1)
*'''French''': [[brosse]] ''f'' (1)
*'''German''': [[Pinsel]] ''m'' (1) (paintbrush), [[Bürste]] ''f'' (1, 2),  [[Busch]] ''n'' (4), [[Fuchsschwanz]] ''m'' (5)
*'''Indonesian''': [[sikat]] <!-- definition not verified -->
*'''Japanese''': [[磨き]] ([[みがき]], migaki) <!-- definition not verified -->

=== Transitive verb ===
'''brush'''

#To clean with a brush.
#: ''Brush your teeth.''
#To untangle or arrange with a brush.
#: ''Brush your hair.''
#To apply with a brush.
#: ''Brush the paint onto the walls.''
#To remove with a sweeping motion.
#: ''Brush the flour off your clothes.''
#to touch with a sweeping motion
#: ''Her scarf brushed his skin.''

====Related terms====
*[[brush aside]]
*[[brush back]]
*[[brush by]]
*[[brush off]]
*[[brush-off]]

====Translations====
{{checktrans}}
*'''Bavarian''': [[bembsln]] <!-- definition not verified -->
*'''Breton''': [[broustañ]] <!-- definition not verified -->
*'''Danish''': [[børste]]
*'''Dutch''': [[borstelen]] (1, 2, 4), [[poetsen]] (1), [[aanbrengen]] (3), [[afborstelen]] (4), [[vegen]] (1, 5), [[van de tafel vegen]] (5)
*'''French''': [[brosser]] (1, 4), (''hair, etc'') [[se brosser]] (2)
*'''German''': [[putzen]] (1), [[bürsten]] (2), [[pinseln]], [[auftragen]] (3), [[wischen]] (4), [[wegwischen]] (5) (translation of "to brush aside")
*'''Indonesian''': [[sikat|menyikat]] <!-- definition not verified -->
*'''Japanese''': [[磨く]] ([[みがく]], migaku) <!-- definition not verified -->

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[it:brush]]
[[ru:Brush]]