==English==
===Noun===
'''bud''' ([[buds]])

# A newly formed leaf or flower which has not yet unfolded.
#: ''After a long, cold winter, the trees finally began to produce buds.''
# (''slang'') Potent cannibis taken from the flowering part of the plant. <!-- Is that exactly right? Not in my direct realm of experience . . . -->
#: ''Want to smoke some bud?''
# A small rounded body in the process of splitting from an organism, which may grow into a genetically identical new organism. <!-- what a bogart! -->
#: ''In this slide, you can see a yeast cell forming buds.''
# (''slang'') Buddy.
#: ''I like to hang out with my buds on Saturday night.''

====Translations====
*Chinese Characters: [[芽]]
*Chinese: [[芽]]
*Dutch: [[knop]] ''de''
*French: [[bourgeon]] ''m'' (1), [[pote]] ''m'' (4), [[pote]] ''f'' (4)
*German: [[Knospe]] ''f''
*Greek: [[οφθαλμός]] ''m''
*Italian: [[germoglio]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[芽]]
*Korean: [[새싹]]
*Russian: [[бутон]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[brote]] ''m''

===Proper Noun===
''Bud''

# A masculine nickname.
#: ''I remember many visits from my uncle Bud.''
# (''US'') Budweiser(TM) beer.
#: ''I'd like a Bud, please.''

===Verb===
'''to bud''' ([[buds]], [[budded]], [[budding]])

# To form buds.
#: ''The trees are finally starting to bud.''
# To reproduce by splitting off buds.
#: ''Yeast reproduces by budding.''

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[ontluiken]]
*French: [[bourgeonner]]
*German: [[knospen]]
*Greek: [[βλαστήσει]]
*Italian: [[germogliare]]
*Russian: [[отпочковываться]]
*Spanish: [[florecer]]