==English==
===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} ''[[bul]]''; {{G.}} ''[[bulle]]''; {{D.}} ''[[bul]]''.

=== Noun ===
'''bull''' (''plural'' '''bulls''')

#The adult male of certain large mammals, such as [[whale]]s, [[elephant]]s and [[seal]]s.<!--do not put "etc" here: these are examples, not an exhaustive list-->
#In particular, the uncastrated adult male of domesticated [[cattle]] or [[ox]]en.
#A large, strong man.
#An optimistic [[investor]] or investment analyst.
#(''slang'') A policeman.<!--where is this used?-->
<!--This has been moved to a separate etymology: see below #(''euphemism for'' '''bullshit''') [[Nonsense]].-->

====Synonyms====
*(''large, strong man''):
*(''slang: policeman''): [[cop]], [[copper]], [[pig]] (''derogatory''), [[rozzer]] (''British'')
*(''nonsense''): ''see'' [[WikiSaurus:nonsense]]

==== Translations ====

'''adult male animal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*'''Dutch''': [[stier]] ''m''
*'''French''': [[mâle]] ''m''
*'''Interlingua''': [[masculo]]
*'''Italian''': [[maschio]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*'''Portuguese''': [[macho]] ''m''
|}
|}
*'''Latin''': Taurus
'''uncastrated adult male of cattle'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*'''Dutch''': [[stier]] ''m''
*Esperanto: bovo
*'''French''': [[taureau]] ''m''
*'''Greek, Modern''': [[ταύρος]] ''m''
*'''Interlingua''': [[tauro]]
*'''Italian''': [[toro]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*'''Latin''': [[taurus]]
*'''Portuguese''': [[touro]] ''m'', [[toiro]] ''m''
*[[Sasxsek]]: (papeni) bov
*'''Spanish''': [[toro]] ''m'' (2)
|}
|}

'''large, strong man'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*'''Portuguese''': [[brutamontes]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''optimistic investor'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: policeman'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*'''French''': [[flic]] ''m''
*'''Interlingua''': [[policiero]] ''m'', [[policiera]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*'''Portuguese''': [[policial]] ''m'' & ''f''
|}
|}

'''bullshit'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is incorrect or unreliable.

*'''Bavarian''': [[Bummal]] (1, 2)
*'''Breton''': [[tarv]] + ''specific mammal'' (1), [[tarv]] ''m'' tirvi ''pl'' (2)
*'''Danish''': [[tyr]] (1, 2, 3)
*'''Dutch''': [[stier]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[beer#Dutch|beer]] (3)
*'''Finnish''': [[uros]] (1), [[sonni]] (2, 3), [[härkä]] (3)
*'''French''': [[taureau]] ''m'' (2, 3)
*'''Frisian''': [[bolle]] (1)
*'''Galego''': [[touro]]
*'''German''': [[Bulle]] ''m'' (1, 2, 4), [[Stier]] ''m'' (2)
*'''Lithuanian''': [[bulius]] ''m'' (2-4)
*'''Romanian''': [[taur]] ''m'' (2,4) [[macho]] ''m'' (3)
*'''Slovene''': [[bik]] ''m'' (2)
*'''Swedish''': [[hane]] ''c'' (1), [[tjur]] ''c'' (3), [[snut]] ''c'' (5)
*'''Turkish''': [[boğa]]

=== Adjective ===
'''bull''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]''; ''used only before the noun'')

#Large and strong, like a bull.
<!--not a separate word: #Resembling a bull, like ''bull dog''-->
#Of large mammals, male.
#:''a bull elephant''
#(''finance'') Of a market in which prices are rising (compare [[bear]])

====Synonyms====
*(''large and strong''): [[beefy]], [[hunky]], [[robust]]
*(''male''): [[male]]

====Antonyms====
*(''large and strong''): [[feeble]], [[puny]], [[weak]]
*(''male''): [[female]]
*(''of a market'') [[bear]]

==== Translations ====

'''large and strong'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*'''Interlingua''': [[grosse]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*'''Portuguese''': [[grande]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''male'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*'''French''': [[mâle]]
*'''Interlingua''': [[mascule]]
*'''Italian''': [[maschio]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*'''Portuguese''': [[macho]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''of a market in which prices are rising'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is unreliable.

*'''Finnish''': [[uros|uros-]] (3)

=== Verb ===
'''to bull''' ('''bulling''', '''bulled''', '''bulled''')

#To [[force]] [[oneself]] (in a particur direction).
#:''He bulled his way in''.
#To [[lie]], to tell [[untruth]]s.
#(''British Military'') To [[polish]] [[boot]]s to a [[high]] [[shine]]

==== Translations ====

'''force oneself'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*'''Interlingua''': [[fortiar]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*'''Portuguese''': [[forçar]]
|}
|}

'''to lie'''
''See'' '''[[lie]]'''

===Derivatives===
*[[bulldog]]
*[[bulldozer]]
*[[bulldust]]
*[[bullfrog]]
*[[bull in a china shop]]
*[[bullseye]]
*[[bullshit]]
*[[take the bull by the horns]]

===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} ''[[bulle]]''; {{OF.}} ''[[bulle]]''; Low {{L.}} ''[[bulla]]''

=== Noun ===
'''bull'''

#An official document or edict from the Pope.
#A seal affixed to a document, especially a document from the Pope.

==== Translations ====

'''document'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''seal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering may be unreliable.

*'''Dutch''': [[bul]] ''n'' (1)
*'''Finnish''': [[bulla#Finnish|bulla]]
*'''French''': [[bulle]] ''f'' (1, 2)
*'''Interlingua''': [[bulla]] (1); [[sigillo]] (2)
*'''Italian''': [[bolla]]
*'''Portuguese''': [[bula]] ''f'' (1); [[selo]] ''m'' (2)
*'''Slovene''': [[bula]] ''f''
*'''Spanish''': [[bula]]
*'''Swedish''': [[bulla]] ''c''

===Etymology===
Middle English ''bul''; Old French ''boule'', a lie.

=== Noun ===
'''bull'''

#A lie.

'''lie or lies'''
''See'' '''[[lie]]'''

<!--Move these translations into "lie" as appropriate.
==== Translations ====
*'''Dutch''': [[onzin]] ''m'', [[klinkklare onzin]] ''m''
*'''Finnish''': [[valhe]], [[vale#Finnish|vale]]
*'''Interlingua''': [[mendacio]], [[mentita]] (1); [[nonsenso]] (2)
*'''Portuguese''': [[mentira]] ''f'' (1); [[papo-furado]] ''m'', [[conversa fiada]] ''f'', [[besteira]] ''f'' (2)
-->

===Etymology===
Contraction of {{E.}} ''[[bullshit]]''.

===Noun===
'''bull''' (''uncountable'')

#(''euphemistic slang''): [[Nonsense]].

==== Translations ====
*'''French''': [[conneries]] ''f plural'' (''vulgar slang''), [[bêtises]] ''f plural''

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is unreliable.

*'''Dutch''': [[onzin]] ''m'', [[klinkklare onzin]] ''m''
*'''Finnish''': [[valhe]], [[vale#Finnish|vale]]
*'''Interlingua''': [[mendacio]], [[mentita]] (1); [[nonsenso]] (2)
*'''Portuguese''': [[mentira]] ''f'' (1); [[papo-furado]] ''m'', [[conversa fiada]] ''f'', [[besteira]] ''f'' (2)

[[Category:Mammals]]

[[gl:Bull]]
[[it:bull]]