In [[marketing]], '''cannibalization''' refers to a reduction in the [[sales]] volume, sales revenue, or [[market share]] of one product as a result of the introduction of a new product by the same producer.

For example, if [[Coca Cola]] were to intoduce a similar product (say, Diet Coke or Cherry Coke), this new product could take some of the sales away from the original Coke. Cannibalization is an important consideration in product [[portfolio]] analysis.

''See also'': [[Product management]], [[New Product Development]], [[marketing]], [[brand]], [[product (business)|product]], [[portfolio|product portfolio]]

[[de:Kannibalisierung]]

[[category:Marketing]]
[[Category:Product management]]

----

In maintenance of mechanical equipment, "cannibalization" refers to the practice of obtaining the spare parts necessary to repair one device by removing them from another similar device, rather than from a pool of spare parts.  The device used as a source of spare parts is often crippled as a result, if only temporarily, in order to allow the recipient device to function properly again.  Cannibalization can usually only occur with devices that use [[Interchangeable parts]].

Such cannibalization can be a sign of extreme budgetary pressure that prevents the purchase of adequate spare parts, or some other emergency such as time constraints and physical distance from a source of spare parts.  At other times, it is a reflection of a surplus of equipment relative to current needs or usage, making some devices unnecessary except as a source of parts for cannibalization.  Sometimes cannibalization can occur if the equipment in question is obsolete, with the manufacturer(s) of the device or the spare parts no longer in existence.