=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'kɑst/

=== Noun ===
#a supportive and immobilising device used to help mend broken bones.
#:the doctor put a ''cast'' on the boy's broken arm.
#the collective group of people performing a play or production together.
#:he's in the ''cast'' of Oliver.
#a small mass of earth excreted by a [[worm]].
#an object made in a [[mould]], or the mould used to make 'cast' objects.
#:a plaster ''cast''.

=== Translations ===
*Dutch: [[gips]] ''n'' (1), [[bezetting]] ''f'' (2), [[rolbezetting]] (2), [[afgietsel]] (4), [[vorm]] (4)
*Finnish: [[valos]] (4)
*Indonesian: [[gips]] (1)
*Japanese: [[ギブス]] (gibusu) / [[ギプス]] (gipusu) (1), [[演奏]] ([[えんそう]], ensō) (2)
*Spanish: [[yeso]] ''m'' (1), [[reparto]] ''m'' (2), [[molde]] ''m'' (4)

=== Verb ===

'''to cast''' (cast, cast)

#to throw something down forcefully or toss something aside
#:to ''cast'' away fear
#:she ''cast'' the die
#the act of throwing a [[fishing line]] or [[net]] into the [[water]].
#:the fisherman ''cast'' the net into the sea.
#to assign a role in a play or performance.
#:the director ''cast'' the part carefully.
#informatics: to change a variable from for example integer to real, or integer to text.
#make by pouring into a mold

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[neergooien]] (1), [[afweren]] (1), [[werpen]] (1) ([[teerling]]), [[uitgooien]] (2), [[toewijzen]] (van [[rol]] ''m'') (3), [[omzetten]] (4)
*[[Finnish]]: [[heittää]] (1, 2)

===Related Words===
*[[plaster cast]]
*[[casting call]]
*[[casting couch]]
*[[cast iron]]

=== Verb ===

'''cast'''

# past tense of to cast

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[gooide neer]], [[weerde af]], [[wierp]], [[wees toe]], [[zette om]]

=== Verb ===

'''cast'''

# past participle of to cast

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[neergegooid]], [[afgeweerd]], [[geworpen]], [[toegewezen]], [[omgezet]]