'''Caucasian''' is originally a geographical term, meaning relative or pertaining to the Caucasus region of Eastern Europe and West Asia. It has in time acquired other specific meanings:

'''in linguistics''', the Caucasian languages are a large number of languages spoken in the Caucasus area; often specifically those that have no demonstrated relatives outside of that region, which are classified into the South, Northwest, Northeast, and North-central Caucasian language families. 
'''in physical anthropology''', the Caucasian race is meant for a specific race of Homo sapiens, sometimes given a Latin designation such as "Varietas Caucasia" (sic), which does not follow the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. 
'''in forensic anthropology and census contexts''', especially in the United States, the Caucasian type is a specific combination of physical attributes, especially white skin. 
'''in common usage''' and political contexts in the USA, Canada, Australia, and Singapore, Caucasian refers to light-complexioned people indigenous to, or descended from Europe, northern Africa, southwest Asia, and the Indian subcontinent. In North America, Caucasian usually means a white person of European, Middle Eastern, and North African descent, excluding people with significant Asian, African, or American Indian ancestry. Usage of the term "Caucasian" for "White Person" is common in many countries of the Anglosphere, but it is not universal. 
'''in bartending''', a Caucasian is a mixed drink also referred to as a White Russian.