==English==
===Etymology===
From the Greek [[καυστός]] burnt, via the Latin ''[[causticus]]'', burning.

===Adjective===
'''caustic''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

# capable of destroying organic tissue or eating away its substance by chemical action.
# severe; satirical; sharp.
#:''a caustic remark''

====Synonyms====
*(''capable of destroying the texture of by chemical action''): [[acidic]], [[biting]], [[burning]], [[corrosive]], [[searing]]
*(''severe, sharp''): [[bitchy]], [[biting]], [[catty]], [[nasty]], [[sharp]], [[spiteful]]

====Quotations====
*'''1843''': "How now!" said Scrooge, '''caustic''' and cold as ever. &mdash; Charles Dickens, ''A Chirstmas Carol''
*'''1843''': The bargain was not concluded as easily as might have been expected though, for Scadder was '''caustic''' and ill-humoured, and cast much unnecessary opposition in the way &mdash; Charles Dickens, ''Martin Chuzzlewit''
*'''1853''': Madame Beck esteemed me learned and blue; Miss Fanshawe, '''caustic''', ironic, and cynical &mdash; Charlotte Bronte, ''Villette''
*'''1857''':The Secretary and the Assistant-Secretaries would say little '''caustic''' things about him to the senior clerks, and seemed somewhat to begrudge him his new honours. &mdash; Anthony Trollope, ''The Three Clerks''
*'''1886''': this set of worthies, who were only too prone to shut up their emotions with '''caustic''' words. &mdash; Thomas Hardy, ''The Mayor of Casterbridge''
*'''1930s???''': though he came too late / To join the martyrs, there was still a place / Among the tempters for a '''caustic''' tongue / / To test the resolution of the young / With tales of the small failings of the great &mdash; W.H.Auden, 'The Quest'

===Noun===
'''caustic''' (''plural'' '''caustics''')

# Any substance or means which, applied to animal or other organic tissue, burns, corrodes, or destroys it by chemical action; an [[escharotic]].
#(''mathematics'') The envelope of reflected or refracted rays for a given curve.
#(''computer graphics'') An irregular highlight reflected from or refracted through a curved surface.

===See also===
*[[caustic curve]]
*[[caustic surface]]