==English==
===Noun===
'''channel''' (''plural'' '''channels''')

#The physical confine of a river or [[slough]], consisting of a [[bed]] and [[bank]]s.
#The natural or man-made deeper course through a [[reef]], [[bar]], [[bay]], or any shallow [[body of water]].
#The [[navigable]] part of a river.
#A narrow body of water between two land masses.
#A connection between initiating and terminating nodes of a circuit.
#A single path provided by a transmission medium via physical separation, such as by multipair cable.
#A single path provided by a transmission via electrical separation, such as by frequency- or time-division multiplexing.
#A path for conveying electrical or electromagnetic signals, usually distinguished from other parallel paths.
#The portion of a storage medium, such as a track or a band, that is accessible to a given reading or writing station or head.
#In a communications system, the part that connects a data source to a data sink.
#A specific radio frequency or band of frequencies, usually in conjunction with a predetermined letter, number, or codeword, and allocated by international agreement.
#A specific radio frequency or band of frequencies used for transmitting [[television]].
#(''Internet'') In [[IRC]], a ??? that is named and based upon digital distinction as opposed to analog distinction.<!--please complete this definition-->

====Synonyms====
*(''narrow body of water between two land masses''): [[passage]], [[sound]], [[strait]]
*(''for television''): [[side]] (''dated British, from when there were only two channels''), [[station]] (''US'')

====Translations====

'''for television'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[chaîne]] ''f''
*Italian: [[canale]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[channel-hopping]]
*[[ion channel]]

===See also===
*[[w:channel_(geography)|List of Wikipedia articles on channels in geography]]
*[[w:channel|List of Wikipedia articles on channels in telecommunications]]

[[it:channel]]