==English==

===Noun===
'''charge'''  (''plural:'' [[charges]])
# A [[load]] or [[burden]]
# The [[amount]] of money levied for a [[service]]
# An [[instruction]]
# An [[impetuous]] [[attack]]
# An [[electromagnetic]] state that creates an attraction for its opposite.  A particle can be [[positive]]ly, [[negative]]ly or [[neutral]]ly charged.
# {{hoops}} An [[offensive foul]] in which the player with the ball moves into a stationary defender.

==== Translations ====
*{{da}}: [[læs]] ''n'' (1), [[anklage]] ''c'' (3), [[angreb]] ''n'' (4), [[ladning]] ''c'' (5)
*French: [[charge#French|charge]] ''f'' (1-5)
*Russian: [[заряд]]
*Spanish: [[Recargar]]

===Verb===
'''to charge'''  ([[charges]], [[charged]], [[charging]])
# To place a [[burden]] upon.
# To [[assign]] a [[duty]] to.
#: ''I'm charging you with cleaning up the kitchen.''
# To [[formal]]ly [[accuse]] of a [[crime]].
#: ''I'm charging you with grand theft auto.''
# To assign a [[debit]] to an [[account]].
#: ''Let's charge this to marketing.''
# To [[pay]] using a [[credit card]].
#: ''Can I charge this with my corporate card?''
# To cause to take on an [[electric]] charge.
#: ''Rubbing amber with wool will charge it quickly.''
# To move [[forward]] [[quick]]ly and [[force]]fully, particularly in [[combat]], on [[horseback]] or both.
# {{military}} To attack by moving forward quickly in a group.
# {{hoops}} To commit a charging [[foul]].
# {{cricket}} (of a [[batsman]]) To take a few steps doen the [[pitch]] towards the [[bowler]] as he [[deliver]]s the ball, either to [[disrupt]] the length of the delivery, or to get into a better [[position]] to hit the ball.
# To ready a [[firearm]] for use
#: ''Charge your weapons, we're moving up''

===Translations===
*Italian: [[caricare]]

===Related Terms===
*[[cargo]]
*[[charge up]]
*[[discharge]]
*[[in charge]]
*[[negative charge]]
*[[positive charge]]
*[[recharge]]

===External Links===
[[w:Charge|Wikipedia article on Charge]]

----

==French==
===Noun===
'''charge''' ''f''

# [[load]], charge

===Verb form===
'''charge'''

# ''first-, third-person singular indicative present of [[charger]]''
# ''first-, third-person singular subjunctive present of charger''
# ''second-person singular imperative of charger''

===Related terms===
*[[chargement]]
*[[charger]]

[[fr:charge]]
[[it:charge]]