== English ==

===Noun===
'''class'''

#A [[group]], [[collection]], [[category]] or [[set]] sharing [[characteristic]]s or [[attribute]]s
#: ''The new Ford Fiesta is set to be best in the 'small family' class''
#::Often used to imply membership of a large class.
#::: ''This word has a whole class of metaphoric extensions.''
#A social grouping, based on [[job]], [[wealth]], etc. In Britain, society is commonly split into three main classes; [[Upper Class]], [[Middle Class]] and [[Working Class]].
# The division of society into classes.  Used without an article.
#: ''Jane Austen's works deal with class in 18th-century England.''
# Admirable behavior; elegance.  Used without an article.
#: ''Apologizing for losing your temper, even though you were badly provoked, showed real class.''
#A group of [[student]]s in a regularly scheduled meeting with a teacher. Used with or without an article.
#: ''The class was noisy, but the teacher was able to get their attention with a story.''
#: ''I have to go to history class now.''
#: ''I have to go.  I have a class in five minutes.''
#: ''I have to go.  I have class in five minutes.''
#A series of classes covering a single subject.
#: ''I took the cooking class for enjoyment, but I also learned a lot.''
#A group of students who commenced or completed their education during a particular year. A [[school class]].
#: ''The class of 1982 was particularly noteworthy.''
#A category of seats in an airplane, train or other means of mass transportation.
#:''I used to fly business class, but now my company can only afford economy.''
#{{taxonomy}} The [[classification]] below [[Phylum]] and above [[Order]].
#: ''Magnolias belong to class Magnoliopsida.''
# (''[[object-oriented]] computing'') A set of [[object]]s possibly differing in [[state]] but not [[behavior]].
# (''mathematics'') A collection of [[set]]s definable by a shared property.
#: ''The class of all sets is not a set.''

====Translations====
*[[Finnish]]: [[luokka]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[classe]]
*[[Polish]]: [[klasa]] ''f'' (1-5,7,8,10), [[kurs]] (6)
*[[Portuguese]]: [[classe]]
*[[Sasxsek]]: [[gen]]  (1-3,8-10)
*[[Swedish]]: [[klass]] (1-5,8,9), [[kurs]] (6), [[årskurs]] (7), [[avgångsklass]] (7)

=== Transitive Verb ===
'''to class'''

# To assign to a class.
#: ''I would class this with most of the other mediocre works of the period.''

====Translations====
*Sasxsek: [[genif]]
*Swedish: [[klassificera]]

=== Related Terms ===

*[[class act]]
*[[class action]]
*[[class clown]]
*[[classify]]
*[[class picture]]
*[[classless]]
*[[classroom]]
*[[class up]]
*[[class war]]
*[[classy]]
*[[coach class]]
*[[economy class]]
*[[first class]]
*[[lower class]]
*[[middle class]]
*[[school class]]
*[[second class]]
*[[steerage class]]
*[[upper class]]
*[[working class]]

[[it:class]]
[[fi:Class]]