===Expression===
A '''cock and bull story''' is a far fetched and fanciful [[story]] or [[tale]] of highly [[dubious]] [[validity]].  

More recent use would translate it as an outright lie, with overtones of insulting the listener by assuming that he is sufficiently [[gullible]] as to be [[take in | taken in]] by it.


===Etymology===
# The term is believed to have originated from [[w:stage coach | stage coach]] travellers' gossip and rumour exchanged between two [[w:coaching inns | coaching inns]], ''The Cock'' and ''The Bull'' in [[w:Stony Stratford | Stony Stratford]], England.  These inns were a main stopping point on the [[w:turnpike | turnpike]] road from [[w:London | London]] to [[w:Birmingham | Birmingham ]], [[w:Chester | Chester]] and [[w:North Wales | North Wales]] (for [[w:Ireland | Ireland]]).  Further discussion below.


# Other commentators suggest that its origin is in [[mythical]] or [[fictional]] conversations among animals.  However, this [[derive|derivation]] seems to be based on the [[suppose | supposition]] that the French expression "coq-a-l'ane" ("cock to donkey") has been imported into English.  This is not an unreasonable supposition, since the [[wikipedia:Lallans | Lallans]] ([[Scots]]) word '''"cockalayne"''' appears to be a direct [[phonetic]] transfer from the French.

---

'''Additional remarks on 'two inns' derivation'''

The Cock Hotel is documented to have existed [in one form or another - 'great fires' were common!] on the current site since at least 1470; the provenance of The Bull is less well documented but is certainly older than 1600.

The first recorded use of the phrase was in John Day's 1608 play ''Law-trickes'' or ''Who Would Have Thought It'': "What a tale of a cock and a bull he told my father."

Microsoft [R][tm](c) Encarta [tm] is unimpressed by this evidence, calling it "folk etymology".