{{UndecidedBeer}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
[Co-lor] /_____/
1)...

=== Alternative spelling===
*[[colour]] ''(UK English)''
'''Note''' - The spelling "color" is primarily a US usage.  Originally the spelling of 'colour' without a U was a sanctioned change of the Spelling Reformist Movement, which was not exculsively accepted by Americans, but was much more popular in the US than it was in England. When the movement died out, its changes remained in US English but not in UK English.  

=== Etymology ===
From Old French '''[[coulour]]''', from Latin '''color'''.  In American spelling the 'u' was dropped from [[colour]] to simplify the spelling. In British spelling the 'u' remains.

=== Noun ===
'''color''', plural '''[[colors]]'''

# The spectral composition of visible light
#: ''Humans and birds can perceive color.''
#  A particular set of visible spectral compositions, perceived or named as a class
#: ''Most languages have names for the colors black, white, red, and green.'' 
# [[Hue]] as opposed to [[achromatic]] colors (black, white and greys).
#: ''He referred to the white flag as one "drained of all color".''
# Human skin tone, especially as an indicator of race or ethnicity.
#: ''Color has been a sensitive issue in many societies.''
# (''figuratively'') interest, especially in a selective area.#
#: ''a bit of local color.''
# In corporate finance, details on sales, profit margins, or other financial figures, especially while reviewing quarterly results when an officer of a company is speaking to investment analyists.
#: ''Could you give me some color with regards to which products made up the mix of revenue for this quarter?''

:''See also'' Wikipedia: [[w:color|color]]

=== Adjective ===

# Conveying color, as opposed to shades of gray
#: ''Color television and movies were considered a great improvement over black and white''

=== Related words ===
:''See'' [[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]
* [[color charge]]
* [[color commentator]]
* [[colored]]
* [[colors]]
* [[off-color]]

==== Translations ====
:Translations are listed under [[colour]].

=== Verb ===
'''color''', '''[[colors]]''', '''[[coloring]]''', '''[[colored]]'''

# give something color
#: ''We could color the walls red''
# draw within the boundaries a line drawing using colored markers or crayons
#: ''My kindergartener loves to color''
# (of a face) To become red through increased blood flow
# affect without completely changing
#: ''That interpretation certainly colors my perception of the book''
# attribute a quality to
#: (''colloquial'') ''Color me confused''

==== Translations ====
:Translations are listed under [[colour]].

----
==Latin==
===Noun===
'''color''' ''m'', genitive '''[[coloris]]'''

Third declension

# color

[[ca:Color]]
[[hu:Color]]
[[nl:color]]
[[ja:color]]
[[pl:Color]]
[[fi:Color]]
[[sv:color]]