==English==

===Homophones===
*[[compliment]] (in some dialects)

===Verb===
'''complement'''

# To complete.
#: ''We believe your addition will complement the team.''
# To provide what the partner lacks and lack what the partner provides.
#: ''The flavors of the pepper and garlic complement each other, giving a very rich taste in combination.''
#: ''I believe our talents really complement each other.''

===Noun===
'''complement'''

# Something which complements.
#: ''We believe you will make a good complement to our team.'''
# {{geometry}} An angle which, together with a given angle, makes a right angle.
# {{mathematics}} The [[set]] containing exactly those elements of the [[universal set]] not in the given set.
#: ''The complement of the odd numbers is the even numbers, relative to the natural numbers.''
# {{logic}} An expression which is true when the other is false, and vice versa.
# {{electronics}} A voltage level with the opposite logical sense to the given one.
# {{mathematics}} The complement relative to some other base, being the number which, added to the given ''n''-digit number in base ''b'', results in either ''b''<sup>''n''</sup> or ''b''<sup>''n''<sup>-1.
# {{cattag2|computing|mathematics}} The [[ones complement]] of a number.
#: ''The complement of 0xAAAA is 0x5555.''
# {{cattag2|computing|mathematics}} The [[twos complement]] of a number.
#: ''The complement of 0xAAAA is 0x5556.''
# {{music}} An [[interval]] which, together with the given interval, makes an [[octave]].
# The [[color]] which, when mixed with the given color, gives black (for mixing pigments) or white (for mixing light).
#: ''The complement of blue is orange.''

===Related Terms===
*[[complementary]]
*[[full complement]]
*[[ones complement]]
*[[nines complement]]
*[[tens complement]]
*[[twos complement]]

===See Also===
*[[compliment]]
*[[invert]]
*[[inversion]]
*[[negate]]
*[[negation]]
*[[supplement]]

===References===
*DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). ''Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music''. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465.