===Noun===
A concept is anything that is understood by a human, (though not necessarily limited to humans).

Colours, shapes and sounds are, perhaps, the simplest concepts - although we may all learn other concepts earlier in our childhoods. Examples: comfort, sleep, discomfort, pain, hunger, thirst, awake, mother, father.

Each concept may be experienced identically by many babies, but during their development they will learn many different 'representations' of these concepts in the forms of words, verbal and written, and art/media such as pictures, video and audio recordings.

Once the concept is understood (even if the understanding varies between individuals), it is possible to link it to many other concepts and representations, thus permitting learning and growth of knowledge, as well as permitting (fortunate) individuals to communicate in multiple languages by linking the different representations of (similar, if not equal) concepts.

It is possible to consider that concepts are more profound than language. But the paradox here is obvious: without language (an index of references (metadata)) we could not fully understand, or create complex links between, concepts (raw data) that permit us to understand what a 'concept' is.

Exercise: try coveying the meaning of the word 'concept' using only pictures, sounds, video, etc.

One possible (artificial) storage structure for concepts is a [[conceptionary|conceptionary]], where concepts, their meaning and references, are linked to create more complex concepts from simple ones.

This definition is provided by Ray Cherry (ray.cherry@mail.com)

====Translations====
*[[Interlingua]]: [[concepto]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[conceito]] ''m''