==English==

===Etymology===
Late Latin '''[[conductus]]''', ''defense'', ''escort'', from Latin '''[[conductus]]''', perfect passive participle of '''[[conducere]]'''.  See [[conduce]], and [[conduit]].

===Pronunciation===
CONduct

====Noun====
'''conduct'''
#The act or method of conducting; guidance; management.
#:''Christianity has humanized the '''conduct''' of war.'' - [[Paley?]].
#Skillful guidance or management; generalship.
#:'''''Conduct''' of armies is a prince's art.'' - [[Waller?]].
#The manner of guiding or carrying one's self; personal deportment; mode of action; behavior.
#:''He carried himself with a distinguished '''conduct'''.''
#''(of a literary work):'' Plot; action; construction; manner of development.
=====Synonyms=====
*[[behavior]]
*[[deportment]]
*[[demeanor]]
*[[bearing]]
*[[management]]
*[[guidance]]
=====Translations=====
*'''Swedish''': [[utförande]] ''n'' (1)

===Pronunciation===
conDUCT

====Transitive verb====
'''conduct''' ([[conducts]], [[conducted]], [[conducting]])

#To lead, or guide; to escort; to attend.
#:''I can '''conduct''' you, lady, to a low But loyal cottage, where you may be safe.'' - [[John Milton]].
#To lead, as a commander; to direct; to manage; to carry on; as, to conduct the affairs of a kingdom.
#:''Little skilled in the art of '''conducting''' a siege.'' - [[Prescott?]].
#To behave; with the reflexive
#:''he '''conducted''' himself well.''
#To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat, light, electricity, etc.
#''(music)'': To direct, as the leader in the performance of a musical composition.

====Intransitive verb====
#To act as a conductor (as of heat, electricity, etc.); to carry.
#''(US)'': To conduct one's self; to behave.

=====Translations=====
*{{sv}}: [[utföra]] (1), [[uppföra sig]] (3), [[leda]] (2,4)


[[it:conduct]]