===Pronunation===
\Con*tin"u*ous\

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[continuus]]'', from ''[[continere]]'', to hold together.

===Adjective=== 
#Without break, cessation, or interruption; without intervening space or time; uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; unceasing; constant; continued; protracted; extended; as, a continuous line of railroad; a continuous current of electricity.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He can hear its '''continuous''' murmur.   - Longfellow.
#''(Botany):'' Not deviating or varying from uninformity; not interrupted; not joined or articulated.
#Mathematical property of a [[map]] with a formal <math>\epsilon</math>-<math>\delta</math>-definition as follows: Given <math>I,D\subset\mathbb{R}</math> (''I'' and ''D'' are subsets of the [[Real Numbers]]), continuity of <math>f(x):I \to D</math> (<math>f(x)</math> maps the [[interval]] ''I'' to the interval ''D'') at <math>c\in\mathbb{R}</math> means, for all <math>\varepsilon>0</math>, there exists a <math>\delta>0</math> such that <math>|x-c|<\delta</math> and <math>x\in I</math> [[implies]] <math>|f(x)-f(c)|<\varepsilon</math>.

===Usage note===
*'''Continuous''' is the stronger word, and denotes that the continuity or union of parts is absolute and uninterrupted; as, a '''continuous sheet''' of ice; a '''continuous''' flow of water or of argument. So Daniel Webster speaks of "a '''continuous''' and unbroken strain of the martial airs of England." 
*'''Continual''', in most cases, marks a close and unbroken succession of things, rather than absolute continuity. Thus we speak of '''continual''' showers, implying a repetition with occasional interruptions; we speak of a person as liable to '''continual''' calls, or as subject to '''continual''' applications for aid, etc.

===Derived expression===
*'''Continuous brake''', ''(Railroad):'' a [[brake]] which is attached to each car of a train, and can be caused to operate in all the cars simultaneously from a point on any car or on the engine.
*'''Continuous impost'''. See [[Impost]].

===Antonym===
[[discontinuous]], [[batch]].
=== See  also ===
*[[Constant]]
*[[Contiguous]]

==== Translations ====
*'''Chinese'''
*:''simplified'': 持续的;连续的
*:''traditional: 持續的;連續的
*:''pinyin'': chíxù de; liánxù de
*'''Dutch''': [[continu]], [[continue]], [[voortdurend]], [[voortdurende]], [[aanhoudend]], [[aanhoudende]]
*'''French''': [[continu]]
*'''German''': [[kontinuierlich]] (1), [[stetig]] (1,3)
*'''Hebrew''': [[רציף]]

[[ja:continuous]]
[[sv:continuous]]