''See also: [[Coral]]''
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Noun===
'''coral''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''corals''')

#(''uncountable'') A hard substance made of the [[limestone]] [[skeleton]]s of [[marine]] [[polyp]]s.
#(''countable'') A [[colony]] of marine polyps.
#(''countable'')(''colour'') A somewhat [[yellowish]] [[pink]] [[colour]], the colour of red coral.
#:<table><tr><td>coral colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#FF7F50" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>

====Translations====
'''substance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[珊瑚]] (さんご, sango)
|}
|}

'''colony'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[koraalrood]] ''n''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[珊瑚色]] (さんごいろ, sangoiro)
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is unreliable.
*Chinese: [[珊瑚]]
*Dutch: [[koraal]] ''n'' (1), [[koraalrif]] ''n'' (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[koralo]]
*French: [[corail]] ''m''
*German: [[Korallenriff]] ''n'' (1, 2) 
*Italian: [[corallo]]
*Latvian: [[korallis]] ''m'' (1, 2)

===Adjective===
'''coral'''

#Made of coral.
#(''colour'') Having the yellowish pink colour of coral.

====Translations====

'''made of coral'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[koraal]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[珊瑚製の]] (さんごせいの, sangoseino)
|}
|}

'''having the yellowish pink colour of coral'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[koraalrood]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[珊瑚色の]] (さんごいろの, sangoirono)
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*[[Esperanto]]: [[korala]]

===Derived terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brain coral]]
*[[coral bean]]
*[[coral bleaching]]
*[[coral fungus]]
*[[Coral Gables]]
*[[coral island]]
*[[coral reef]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[Coral Sea]]
*[[Coral Sea Islands Territory]]
*[[coral snake]]
*[[Coral Springs]]
*[[coral tree]]
*[[coral trout]]
*[[coral-bells]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[coralberry]]
*[[coralline]]
*[[coralloid]]
*[[coralroot]]
*[[precious coral]]
*[[staghorn coral]]
*[[stony coral]]
|}
|}
===Related terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[atoll]]
*[[barrier reef]]
*[[dactylozooid]]

|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[fringing reef]]
*[[gonophore]]
*[[gorgonian]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[madrepore]]
*[[millepore]]
*[[sea fan]]
*[[sea whip]]
|}
|}

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Wiktionary appendix of colours]]

[[Category:English colors]]

[[it:coral]]