{{-en-}}
===Etymology===
Old French ''corniere'', cornier, Late Latin ''cornerium'', corneria, from Latin ''cornu'' horn, end, point. See [[horn]].

===Noun===
'''corner''' (''plural'' '''[[corners]]''')

#The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either external or internal.
#The space in the angle between converging lines or walls which meet in a point.
#:''the chimney corner''
#An intersection of two streets; any of the four outer points off the street at that intersection.
#:''the store on the corner''
#An edge or extremity; the part farthest from the center; hence, any quarter or part.
#:''From the four '''corners''' of the earth they come.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
#A secret or secluded place; a remote or out of the way place; a nook.
#Direction; quarter.
#The state of things produced by a combination of persons, who buy up the whole or the available part of any stock or species of property, which compels those who need such stock or property to buy of them at their own price; as, a corner in a railway stock. [Broker's Cant]

====Translations====

'''point where two converging lines meet'''
''See'' '''angle'''

'''space in the angle between converging lines or walls'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[coin#French|coin]] ''m''
*German: [[Ecke]] ''f''
*Italian: [[angolo]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[quina]]
|}
|}

'''intersection of two streets'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[Ecke]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[esquina]]
|}
|}

'''part farthest from the center'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''secret or secluded place'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[coin#French|coin]] ''m''
*German: [[Ecke]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''direction'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''state of things produced by people who buy up whole of stock'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Transitive verb===
'''corner''' ('''[[cornering]]''', '''[[cornered]]''', '''[[cornered]]''')

#To drive (someone) into a corner.
#To drive into a position of great difficaulty or hopeless embarrassment.
#:''corner a person in argument''
#To get command of (a stock, commodity, etc.), so as to be able to put one's own price on it.
#:''corner the shares of a railroad stock''
#:''corner petroleum''
#(''automotive'') to [[turn]] a corner or drive around a curve or to [[handle]] while turning
#:''It '''corners''' well, but the suspension is too stiff.''

====Translations====

'''drive into a corner'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''drive into a position of great difficulty or hopeless embarrassment'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[in die Enge treiben]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''get command of a stock or commodity'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Intransitive verb===
#Of an automobile, to move around a corner in a road.
#:''That BMW corners well.''

'''move around a corner in a road'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[corner shop]]
*[[cornerstone]]<!--Corner stone, the stone which lies at the corner of two walls, and unites them; the principal stone; especially, the stone which forms the corner of the foundation of an edifice; hence, that which is fundamental importance or indispensable. ''A prince who regarded uniformity of faith as the corner stone of his government.'' Prescott.-->
*[[corner store]]
*[[corner tooth]]<!--Corner tooth, one of the four teeth which come in a horse's mouth at the age of four years and a half, one on each side of the upper and of the lower jaw, between the middle teeth and the tushes.-->

===Sayings===
*''To pick corners'' - To choose a preference (as in predicting which boxer will win a match).

[[ang:Corner]]
[[io:Corner]]
[[it:corner]]
[[hu:corner]]
[[fi:Corner]]