==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /kɔːt/

===Noun===
'''court'''  (''plural:'' '''[[courts]]''')
#An inclosed space; a [[courtyard]]; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley.
#The residence of a [[sovereign]], prince, nobleman, or ether dignitary; a [[palace]].
#The collective body of persons composing the retinue of a sovereign or person high in authority; all the surroundings of a sovereign in his regal state.
#Any formal assembling of the retinue of a sovereign; as, to hold a court.
#Attention directed to a person in power; conduct or address designed to gain favor; courtliness of manners; civility; compliment; flattery.
#The [[hall]], chamber, or place, where justice is administered.
#The persons officially assembled under authority of [[law]], at the appropriate time and place, for the administration of [[justice]]; an official [[assembly]], legally met together for the transaction of judicial business; a judge or [[judge]]s sitting for the hearing or [[trial]] of causes.
#A tribunal established for the administration of justice.
#The judge or judges; as distinguished from the counsel or jury, or both.
#The session of a judicial assembly.
#Any [[jurisdiction]], civil, military, or ecclesiastical.
#A place arranged for playing the game of tennis; also, one of the divisions of a [[tennis]] court.

====Translations====
*Chinese: [[法院]], [[宫廷]], [[庭院]]
*Italian: [[corte]], [[tribunale]]
*Japanese: [[中庭]], [[裁判所]], [[宮廷]]

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|court||}}
# [[Woo]]; attempt to win over with social activities and displays of breeding; tact and affection.

[[et:Court]]
[[io:Court]]
[[it:court]]
[[fi:Court]]