== English ==
===Etymology===

{{OE.}} [[cranke]] (meaning akin to {{E.}} [[cringe]], [[cringle]], [[crinkle]], and ''to crank'', also, the root meaning, probably, to [[turn]], [[twist]]). See [[Cringe]]. 
<!-- From Webster http://machaut.uchicago.edu/?action=search&word=crank&resource=Webster%27s&quicksearch=on

Crank (Page: 339)
Crank (kr?nk), n. [OE. cranke; akin to E. cringe, cringle, crinkle, and to crank, a., the root meaning, probably, to turn, twist." See Cringe.] 

1. (Mach.) A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank. 

2. Any bend, turn, or winding, as of a passage. 

So many turning cranks these have, so many crooks. Spenser.
[340]

3. A twist or turn in speech; a conceit consisting in a change of the form or meaning of a word. 

Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles. Milton.
4. A twist or turn of the mind; caprice; whim; crotchet; also, a fit of temper or passion. [Prov. Eng.] 

Violent of temper; subject to sudden cranks. Carlyle.
5. A person full of crotchets; one given to fantastic or impracticable projects; one whose judgment is perverted in respect to a particular matter. [Colloq.] 

6. A sick person; an invalid. [Obs.] 

Thou art a counterfeit crank, a cheater. Burton.
Crank axle (Mach.), a driving axle formed with a crank or cranks, as in some kinds of locomotives. -- Crank pin (Mach.), the cylindrical piece which forms the handle, or to which the connecting rod is attached, at the end of a crank, or between the arms of a double crank. -- Crank shaft, a shaft bent into a crank, or having a crank fastened to it, by which it drives or is driven. -- Crank wheel, a wheel acting as a crank, or having a wrist to which a connecting rod is attached. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Crank (Page: 340)
Crank (kr?nk), a. [AS. cranc weak; akin to Icel. krangr, D. & G. krank sick, weak (cf.D. krengen to careen). Cf. Crank, n.] 

1. Sick; infirm. [Prov. Eng.] 

2. (Naut.) Liable to careen or be overest, as a ship when she is too narrow, or has not sufficient ballast, or is loaded too high, to carry full sail. 

3. Full of spirit; brisk; lively; sprightly; overconfident; opinionated. 

He who was, a little before, bedrid, . . . was now crank and lusty. Udall.
If you strong electioners did not think you were among the elect, you would not be so crank about it. Mrs. Stowe.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Crank (Page: 340)
Crank, v. i. [See Crank, n. ] To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and turn. 

See how this river comes me cranking in. Shak.
-->
=== Noun ===
'''crank''' (''plural'' '''cranks''')
# (''colloquial'') an [[ill-tempered]] or [[nasty]] person
#: ''Billy-Bob is a nasty, old '''crank'''! He chased my cat away''.
# A [[bent]] piece of an [[axle]], or [[shaft]], or an arm attached [[at right angles]] to the end of a shaft or wheel, used to [[impart]] a circular action to a wheel or other mechanical device and create power; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. 
#: ''Use the '''crank''' on the motorcycle and go for a ride''.
# Converting power into motion, as with a [[crankshaft]].
#: ''Yes, a '''crank''' was all it needed to start''.
# ''(US slang)'' [[Methamphetamine]].
#: ''Danny got abscesses from shooting all that bathtub '''crank'''''.
#Any bend, turn, or winding, as of a passage. 
#:''So many turning cranks these have, so many crooks.'' - Spenser.
#A twist or turn in speech; a conceit consisting in a change of the form or meaning of a word. 
#:''Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles.'' - Milton.

=== Transitive verb ===
'''crank''' ('''cranks''' '''cranked''' '''cranking''')
# to turn a '''crank'''
#* '''Crank''' it up!
#* He's been '''cranking''' all day and yet it refuses to '''crank'''.

===Intransitive Verb===
'''crank''' ('''cranks''' '''cranked''' '''cranking''')
#To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and turn. 
#:See how this river comes me cranking in. - {{Shak.}}
==== Related terms ====
*[[cranky]]
*[[crankcase]]
*[[crankpin]]
*[[crankstart]]
*[[crank axle]] <!--a driving axle formed with a crank or cranks, as in some kinds of locomotives. -->
*[[crank pin]] <!--the cylindrical piece which forms the handle, or to which the connecting rod is attached, at the end of a crank, or between the arms of a [[double crank]].-->
*[[crank shaft]] <!--a shaft bent into a crank, or having a crank fastened to it, by which it drives or is driven.--> 
*[[crank wheel]] <!--a wheel acting as a crank, or having a wrist to which a connecting rod is attached. -->