==English==
==Pronunciation==
\Crush\ 
==Verb==
crush
*imp. & p. p. Crushed
*p. pr. & vb. n. Crushing 

[OE. cruschen, crousshen, Of.
cruisir, croissir, fr. LL. cruscire, prob. of Ger. origin,
from a derivative of the word seen in Goth. kruistan to
gnash; akin to Sw. krysta to squeeze, Dan. kryste, Icel.
kreysta.]
# To press or bruise between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force together into a mass; as, to crush grapes.
#*Ye shall not offer unto the Lord that which is bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut. --Lev. xxii.
#To reduce to fine particles by pounding or grinding; to comminute; as, to crush quartz.
# To overwhelm by pressure or weight; to beat or force down, as by an incumbent weight.
#To oppress or burden grievously.
#To overcome completely; to subdue totally.
#To crush out
#*To force out or separateby pressure, as juice from grapes.
#*To overcome or destroy completely; to suppress.

===Intransitive verb===
To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller
compass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes
easily.

==Noun==

# A violent collision or compression; a crash; destruction; ruin.
# Violent pressure, as of a crowd; a crowd which produced uncomfortable pressure; as, a crush at a peception.
#A short-lived and [[unrequited]] [[love]] or [[infatuation]]; the object of this infatuation.
#A [[chute]] or [[corridor]] in a cattle yard.

{Crush hat}, a hat which collapses, and can be carried under
   the arm, and when expanded is held in shape by springs;
   hence, any hat not injured by compressing.

{Crush room}, a large room in a theater, opera house, etc.,
   where the audience may promenade or converse during the
   intermissions; a foyer.

         Politics leave very little time for the bow window
         at White's in the day, or for the crush room of the
         opera at night.                       --Macaulay.

==== Translations ====
*[[Indonesian]]: [[hancur|menghancurkan]], [[remuk|meremukkan]], [[lumat|melumat]], [[tumbuk|menumbuk]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[砕く]] ([[くだく]], kudaku), [[破壊]]する ([[はかい]]する, hakai-suru)

[[it:crush]]
{{webster}}
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]