===Noun===
'''dagger''' (plural: [[daggers]])
#(''Weapon'') [[Category:Weapon]]  A [[stab]]bing [[weapon]], similar to a [[sword]] but with a short [[blade]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1600''': I bruis'd my [[shin]] th' other day with playing at sword and [[dagger]] with a [[master]] of [[fence]]... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'', Act I, Scene I, line 282.
#:*'''1786''': The [[dagger]], under the title [[cultellum]] and [[misericorde]], has been the constant [[companion]] of the [[sword]], at least from the days of Edward I. and is mentioned in the [[statute]] of Winchester. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 34.
#A text [[character]] ('''&dagger;''') that is used for [[footnote]]s. 
#Anything that causes [[pain]] like a dagger.  
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1596''': Tubal: Your [[daughter]] [[spent]] in Genoa, as I heard, one night [[fourscore]] [[ducat]]s. Shylock: You stick'st a [[dagger]] in me. I shall never see my [[gold]] again.  Fourscore ducats at a sitting, fourscore ducats! &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''The Merchant of Venice'', Act III, Scene II, line 108.
====Synonyms====
[[obelisk]] (2), [[obelus]] (2)

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[кама]] ''f'' (1)
*Dutch: [[dolk]] ''m''
*Finnish: [[tikari]]
*French: [[poignard]] ''m'' (1); [[croix]] ''f'' (2)
*German: [[Dolch]] ''m''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[daga]]
*Italian: [[pugnale]] ''m'', [[stiletto]] ''m'' (1), [[croce]] ''f'' (2)
*Japanese: [[短刀]] (たんとう, tanto) (1)
*Polish: [[sztylet]] ''m'' (1)
*Portuguese: [[adaga]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[pumnal]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[puñal]] ''m'', [[daga]] ''f''