==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''decimare'', from ''Decimus'', tenth, from ''decem'', ten, originally referring to the killing of every tenth Roman legionnaire in a mutinous or poorly-performing legion.

===Pronunciation===
*'''decimate''': /'de-s&-"mAt/
*'''decimated''': /'de-s&-"mAtd/

===Transitive verb===
'''decimate'''

# To severely reduce;  to destroy almost completely.
#: ''The smallpox epidemic decimated the population.''
# (''computer graphics'') To replace a high-resolution mesh of polygons with one of lower resolution but acceptably similar appearance.
# (''obsolete'') To reduce by one in ten, or ten percent.
#: ''The legion was decimated after every member refused to name the culprit.''
# (''obsolete'') to exact a tax of 10 percent from 

===Usage Note===
The definition ''reduce by one in ten'' is occasionally cited as "the correct" definition, with ''severely reduce'' considered a "misconception".  While the second is doubtless based on the re-analysis that ''deci-'' refers to dividing by ten and not to eliminating a tenth, it is nonetheless the current usage, and has been for centuries.  If you use ''decimate'' in the first sense in general writing, expect to be misunderstood.  Check the OED if you doubt this.

For example, of the 23 occurrences of ''decimate'' in the [http://sara.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/cgi-bin/saraWeb?qy=decimate British National Corpus], almost all clearly accord with the second sense.  The only references to the first sense are two complaints about modern usage and its critics.  Interestingly, none of the uses seems to mean ''reduce to one-tenth''.

===Related Terms===
*[[decimation]]