{{delete}}(1) A philosophical movement originating in France in the 1960s which emphasized (as opposed to the New Criticism movement in the UK and USA) that texts have multiple and at times contradictory meanings of which the author or speaker of the text may not be aware. 

(2) In common educated speech, usually an attempt to dignify a critique or analysis by association with recent developments in philosophy that sometimes backfires, producing resentment against perceived or actual pretension.

"'Let me deconstruct that objection to our proposed mission statement', John said rather pompously to the assembled team, members of whom were checking their watches surreptitiously."

Unless the conscious association with French philosophy is the intended effect and meaning, many more acceptable synonyms exist starting with "analysis", "criticism", and "critique". "Analysis" lends a scientific or pseudo-scientific aura. "Criticism", although leading with the chin, is brutally honest. "Critique" implies that the "criticism" will be gentle.

"Deconstruction" implies that the listener is in for a carpet-bombing of French-inspired terminology. Many listeners and readers to and of a text in which they encounter this word may stop reading at the same moment, but others will read on, hoping for some insight into mysteries, and will be disappointed if the user cannot provide this.

The term was probably invented by Derrida in its French form to describe a practice which as an honest philosopher he needed to rigourously self-apply, always being conscious of the fact that previous attempts in the modern era to stand outside systems and judge them on "objective" criteria had fallen prey to a post-Enlightenment refusal to stay inside dogmatic boundaries...a refusal which came to full flower in the 1960s. 

As such, honest, tradesmanlike deconstruction is in a text always active, destroying everything in its path including itself like an army of rather suicidal fire ants. Examples of its style in Derrida include long lists of alternative words and phrases that the reader, the auditor, the listener, the viewer-of-the-text may then feel free to choose among as paths to a "polysemic" reality behind the text which is also the text viewed from behind.

This is in fact the late philosopher at his philosophical work bench, for Derrida did not invent intellectual humility, nor that apparent form of prolixity which results, although he needs to be celebrated for his intellectual humility and as a founding thinker of multiculturalism and other garden-variety efforts to keep us all from killing each other. But for this reason, the word "deconstruction" should not be used if one merely proposes, as does the unfortunate manager John in my example, to focus on one thing at a time.