==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /dɛrəlɪkt/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /dEr@lIkt/
===Etymology===
[[Latin]] ''derelictus'' [[past participle]] of ''derelinquere'' 'forsake, abandon' from ''de'' + ''relinquere'' 'leave, forsake'.

===Adjective===
'''derelict''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''more derelict''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''most derelict''')

#Abandonded, forsaken; (of ship) abandonded at sea; dilapidated, neglected.
#Negligent in performing a duty.

===Noun===
'''derelict''' (''plural'' '''derelicts''')

#Abandonded property; a ship abandonded at sea.
#An abandonded or forsaken person; an outcast.
#A negligent person.

=== Translations ===
'''Adjective: abandonded'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[French]]: abandonné, délaissé; (tombé) en ruines.
*[[Irish]]: tréigthe, fágtha béal in airde.
*[[Italian]]: abbandonato.
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[abandonado]], [[derelito]] ''(Brazil)'', [[derrelito]] ''(Brazil)'', [[derrelicto]] ''(Portugal)''
|}
|}

'''Adjective: negligent'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[French]]: négligent.
*[[Irish]]: faillitheach [faillíoch].
*[[Italian]]: negligente, trascurato.
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[negligente]]
|}
|}

'''Noun: abandonded property'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Italian]]: oggetto abbandonato, rifiuto.
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''Noun: abandonded ship'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[French]]: navire abandonné (''en mer'').
*[[German]] aufgegeben-ein verlassenes schiff.
*[[Irish]]: long thréigthe.
*[[Italian]]: relitto.
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[derelito]] ''(Brazil)'', [[derrelito]] ''(Brazil)''
|}
|}

'''Noun: outcast'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[French]]: épave (humaine).
*[[Irish]]: díbeartach, éan scoite.
*[[Italian]]: derelitto, relitto della società.
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''Noun: negligent person'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Irish]]: faillitheoir.
*[[Italian]]: persona negligente.
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Examples===
There was a derelict ship on the island.

===Synonyms===
abandoned