==English==
===Etymology 1===
Middle English from Old Norse ''[[deyja]]''

====Pronunciation====
*dī, /daɪ/, /<tt>daI</tt>/

====Intransitive verb====
{{en-infl-reg-ie|d|ie|}}

#To stop living. To become dead. To undergo [[death]].

=====Translations=====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Breton: [[mervel]] ''radical'' marv-
*CJKV Characters: [[死]]
*Chinese: [[死]] (sǐ)
*Czech: [[umřít]]
*Dutch: [[doodgaan]], [[sterven]]
*Esperanto: [[morti]]
*Finnish: [[kuolla]]
*French: [[mourir]]
*Frisian: [[deagean]], [[ferstjerre]], [[stjerre]]
*German: [[sterben]]
*Guaraní: [[mano]]/[[e'õ]] (t-)
*Hebrew: [[למות]]
*{{io}} : [[mortar]]
*Interlingua: [[morir]]
*Italian: [[morire]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[死ぬ]] ([[しぬ]]; shinu)
*Korean: [[죽다]] (jukda)
*Kurdish (Kurmancî): [[mirin]]
*Kurdish (Soranî): [[mirdin]]
*Latin: [[mori]]
*Portuguese: [[morrer]]
*Polish: [[umierać]] ''imperf'', [[umrzeć]] ''perf''
*Russian: [[умереть]]
*Slovak: [[umrieť]], [[skonať]], [[pominúť sa]], 
*Spanish: [[morir]]
*Swedish: [[dö]], ([[dog]], [[dött]])
*Tupinambá: [[manõ]]/[[e'õ]] (t-)
*Turkish: [[ölmek]]
|}
|}

===Etymology 2===
Middle English ''[[dee]]'', from Old French ''[[de#Old French|de]]'' (French ''[[dé]]''), from Latin ''[[datum]]'', from ''[[datus]]'', "given", the past participle of ''[[dare]]'', "to give".
====Pronunciation====
*dī, /daɪ/, /<tt>daI</tt>/

====Noun====
'''die''' (''spelling variant for the singular with plural ''dice'' (considered incorrect by most authorities but has come, especially in gambling, into widespread use):'' '''dice'''; ''plural (depending on meaning): either'' '''dice''' ''or'' '''dies''')
*Pronunciation of '''dice''': dīs, /daɪs/, /<tt>daIs</tt>/
#''(plural:'' '''dice''''')'' A [[polyhedron]], usually a [[cube]], with [[number]]s or [[symbol]]s on each side and used in [[game of chance|games of chance]]
#''(plural:'' '''dies''''')'' The [[cubical]] part of a [[pedestal]], a [[plinth]]
#''(plural:'' '''dies''''')'' A [[device]] for [[cut]]ting into a [[specify|specified]] [[shape]]
#''(plural:'' '''dies''''')'' An [[emboss]]ed [[device]] used in [[stamp]]ing [[coin]]s and [[medal]]s

=====Translations=====
'''polyhedron used in games of chance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Breton: [[diñs]] ''m'' -où ''pl''
*Chinese: [[骰子]] (shaizi)
*Dutch: [[dobbelsteen]], [[teerling]] (old)
*Finnish: [[noppa]], [[arpakuutio]]
*French: [[dé]] ''m''
*Frisian: [[dobbelstien]]
*German: [[Würfel]] ''m''
*Hebrew: [[קוביה]]
*{{io}} : lud-kubo
*Interlingua: [[dato]]
*Italian: [[dado]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[賽子]], [[骰子]] ([[さいころ]])
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Polish: [[kość]] ''f'', [[kostka]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[dado]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[dado]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[tärning]]
|}
|}

'''cubical part of a pedestral'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[voet]], [[plint]]
*Interlingua: [[plyntho]], [[socculo]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[plinto]] ''m'', [[soclo]] ''m'', [[soco]] ''m''
|}
|}


'''device for cutting into a secified shape'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[mal]], [[matrijs]], [[vorm]]
*Finnish: [[muotti]], [[stanssi]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|

|}
|}

'''embossed device used in stamping'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[stempel]]
*Finnish: [[leimasin]]
*Interlingua: [[cuneo]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[cunho]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[cuña]] ''f''
|}
|}

[[Category:English irregular plurals]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

== Dutch ==
[[nl:die]]
===Pronunciation===
/di:/
===Demonstrative pronoun===
#''masculine'' or ''feminine'' pronoun referring to a thing or a person, farther away: [[that]], [[him]], [[her]] (cp. [[deze]], and [[dat]]/[[dit]]).

===Relative pronoun===
#who, which, that
#: ''Ik ken iemand die dat kan'': I know somebody [[who]] can do that.

===Demonstrative adjective===
#referring to a thing or a person: that, [[which]], [[who]].
#: ''die boom'': that tree; ''die jongen''; that boy.

====Usage note====
*A preceding comma may alter the meaning of a clause starting with a demonstrative adjective.
::''De jonge vrouw, '''die''' de schoen past, zal ik huwen'' vs. ''De jonge vrouw '''die''' de schoen past, zal ik huwen'': the young woman, whom the shoe (incidentally) fits, I will marry, vs. the (first) young woman whom the shoe fits I will marry.

----
== German ==
[[de:die]]
=== Article ===
'''die'''
# The [[definite article]], used with plural or feminine singular nouns, [[the]].

===Relative pronoun===
# [[that]], [[which]], [[who]], [[whom]], [[whose]]
#:''In a subordinate clause, indicates a person or thing referenced in the main clause.  Used with plural or feminine singular referents.''
#: Ich kenne eine Frau, ''die'' das kann: I know a woman ''who'' can do that.

----
==Latin==
[[la:die]]
===Noun===
#Ablative singular of ''[[dies]]'' meaning [[day]].

===Expressions===
#''Sine die'': Without a day

[[pl:die]]