{{rfc}}

==English==
===Preposition===
'''down'''

#on the [[lower]] side, below
#South
#In [[Hiberno English]] down is used as a description of a location away from a city. E.g. "He went down to Cavan" even if the location is to the North. "Down on the farm", "Down country"

====Translations====
*[[Catalan]]: [[avall]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[beneden]], [[onder]]
*[[Ido]]: [[infre]], [[adinfre]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[bawah]]
*[[Italian]]: [[sotto]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[下]] ([[した]], shita)
*[[Russian]]: ниже (1)
*[[Spanish]]: [[abajo]]

===Adjective===
'''down'''

# [[depressed]], feeling low
# On a lower level than before
#:''The stock market is down.''
#:''Prices are down.''

====Translations====
*[[Catalan]]: [[deprimit]], [[deprimido]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[depressief]], [[depri]]
*[[French]]: [[dépressif]], [[dépri]]
*German: down (1), [[unten]] (2)
*[[Italian]]: [[giù]]
*[[Russian]]: печальный (1), снижающийся (2)

===Noun===
'''down''' (uncountable)

#What grows on young birds before their [[feather]]s appear. Down looks like feathers but its ''backbone'' is not rigid or stiff. It makes good insulation material that is very flexible.
# ''(usually plural)'' field, especially for racing
#: A hill such as "Churchill Downs", "Upson Downs" (from ''Auntie Mame'', by Patrick Dennis)

====Translations====
*[[Catalan]]: [[plomissol]] ''m'', [[plomissa]] ''f''
*[[Dutch]]: [[dons]] ''n''
*[[French]]: [[duvet]] ''m''
*German: [[Daune]] ''f'' (1), [[Daune]]n ''f'' ''(pl)'' (1), [[Hügel]] ''m'' (3)
*[[Italian]]: [[piumino]] ''m''
*[[Japanese]]: [[綿毛]] ([[わたげ]], watage), [[ダウン]] (daun)
*[[Russian]]: [[пух]] (1), холм
*[[Spanish]]: [[plumón]] ''m''

===Proper noun===
'''Down'''

# part of the compound word [[Down's syndrome]]
# One of the counties of Northern Ireland.

===Verb===
'''to down'''

#To drink or swallow, especially without stopping before the vessel containing the liquid is empty.
#To pot a ball.
#To drop.

====Translations====
*French: [[faire cul sec]] (1), [[laisser tomber]] (3)
*German: [[exen]] (1), [[runterkippen]] (1), [[versenken]] (2), [[fallen lassen]] (3)
*Russian: [[выпить залпом]] (1)

===Adverb===

#Vertically decreasing.
#Lessening.
#Over.

====Translations====
*Russian: уменьшаться (2)

[[it:down]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]