== English ==
=== Verb ===
'''to drop''' ([[drops]], [[dropped]], [[dropping]])

==== Intransitive ====
# To fall
#: ''A single shot was fired and the bird '''dropped''' from the sky.''
# To fall in value
#: ''The stock '''dropped''' 1.5% on the news.''
# To lower oneself quickly to the ground.
#: '''''Drop''' and give me thirty push-ups, Private!''
#: ''If your clothes are on fire, stop, '''drop''' and roll.''

=====Translations=====

'''fall'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{fi}}: [[pudota]]
*French: [[tomber]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[cadere]]
*Slovak: [[spadnúť]]
|}
|}

'''fall in value'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{fi}}: [[pudota]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''lower oneself quickly to the ground'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

==== Transitive ====
# To allow to fall.
#: ''Don't '''drop''' that plate!''
# To get rid of.
#: ''I '''dropped''' 10 pounds and an obnoxious fiance.''
# To eject, to remove.
#: ''I've been '''dropped''' from the football team.''
# To fail to respond to an argument.
#: ''The affirmative team '''dropped''' our arguments about the cost of the plan.''
# (''drug slang'') To [[ingest]] a [[hallucinogen]], particularly [[LSD]].
#: ''They had never '''dropped''' acid.''
# (''slang'') To impart.
#: ''I '''drop''' knowledge wherever I go.''

=====Translations=====

'''allow to fall'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[pudottaa]]
*French: [[laisser tomber]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''get rid of'''
''See'' '''[[get rid of]]'''

'''eject, remove'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''fail to respond to in an argument'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: to ingest a hallucinogen'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: impart'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=== Noun ===
'''drop''' (''plural'' '''drops''')

# A fall.
#: ''That was a long '''drop''', but fortunately I didn't break any bones.''
# The space beyond a boundary into which someone or something could fall.
#: ''On one side of the road was a 50-meter '''drop'''.''
# (''crime'') A place where items may be left anonymously for others to collect.
#: ''I left the plans at the '''drop''', like you asked.''
# A small mass of liquid, just large enough to fall away of its own weight.
#: ''Put three '''drops''' of oil into the mixture.''
# A small, round [[sweet]]/piece of [[candy]].
#: ''Lemon '''drops''' are delicious.''

====Translations====

'''fall'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[pudotus]]
*French: [[chute#French|chute]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[caduta]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''space into which someone or something could fall'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''place where items may be left'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''small mass of liquid'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Finnish]]: [[pisara]]
*French: [[goutte]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[goccia]] ''f''
*[[Kurdish]]: [[dilop]], [[çip]], [[çipik]]
*Slovak: [[kvapka#Slovak|kvapka]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''small, round sweet/piece of candy'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

=== Related terms ===
*[[drop by]]
*[[drop in]]
*[[drop off]]
*[[drop out]]
*[[dropout]]
*[[dropoff]]
*[[dropper]]
*[[cough drop]]
*[[dead drop]]
*[[drop kick]]
*[[one drop]]

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''drop''' ''de'' (diminutive: [[dropje]]) [[Category:Dutch nouns with incomplete gender]]

# [[licorice]]

====Synonyms====
*[[zoethout]] ''n''

[[it:drop]]
[[nl:drop]]