==English==
===Noun===
'''ease''' (''[[uncountable]]'')

#The state of being [[comfortable]] or [[free]] from [[stress]].
#:''She enjoyed the '''ease''' of living in a house where the servants did all the work.''
#[[Freedom]] from [[pain]], [[worry]], [[agitation]], etc.
#:''His mind was at '''ease''' when he received his pension.
#Freedom from [[effort]], [[difficulty]] or [[hardship]].
#:''He passed all the exams with '''ease'''.''
#[[Dexterity]] or [[facility]].
#:''He played the organ with '''ease'''.''
#[[Affluence]] and freedom from [[financial]] [[problem]]s.
#:''After winning the jackpot, she lived a life of luxurious '''ease'''.''
#[[Relaxation]], [[rest]] and [[leisure]].
#:''We took our '''ease''' on the patio.''

====Synonyms====
*(''state of being comfortable or free from stress''): [[comfort]], [[peace]]
*(''freedom from pain, worry, agitation, etc''): [[piece of mind]]
*(''freedom from effort, difficulty or hardship''):
*(''dexterity or facility''): [[dexterity]], [[facility]], [[skill]]
*(''affluence and freedom from financial problems''):
*(''relaxation, rest and leisure''): [[free time]], [[leisure]], [[relaxation]], [[rest]]

====Translations====

'''state of being comfortable or free from stress'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''freedom from pain, worry, agitation, etc'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''freedom from effort, difficulty or hardship'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''dexterity or facility'''
{{top}}
*French: [[facilité]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[facilità]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''affluence and freedom from financial problems'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''relaxation, rest and leisure'''
{{top}}
*French: [[repos]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[riposo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''to ease''' ('''eases''', '''easing''', '''eased''')

#To free (something) from pain, worry, agitation, etc.
#:''He '''eased''' his conscience by confessing.''
#To [[alleviate]], [[assuage]] or [[lessen]] (pain).
#:''He loosened his shoe to '''ease''' the pain.
#To give [[respite]] to (someone).
#:''The provision of extra staff '''eased''' their workload.''
#To [[loosen]] or [[slacken]] the [[tension]] on (something).
#:''We '''eased''' the rope, then lowered the sail.''
#To [[reduce]] the [[difficulty]] of (something).
#:''We had to '''ease''' the entry requirements.''
#To move (something) [[slowly]] and [[carefully]].
#:''He '''eased''' the cork from the bottle.''

====Synonyms====
*(''free (something) from pain, worry, agitation, etc''): [[assuage]], [[salve]]
*(''alleviate, assuage or lessen (pain)''): [[alleviate]], [[assuage]], [[lessen]], [[reduce]]
*(''give respite to (someone)''): [[give someone a break]] (''informal''), [[lay off]] (''informal'')
*(''loosen or slacken the tension on (something)''): [[loosen]], [[relax]], [[slacken]]
*(''reduce the difficulty of (something)''): [[simplify]]
*(''move (something) slowly and carefully''):

====Translations====

'''free (something) from pain, worry, agitation, etc'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''alleviate, assuage or lessen (pain)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''give respite to (someone)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''loosen or slacken the tension on (something)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''reduce the difficulty of (something)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''move (something) slowly and carefully'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
'''to ease''' ('''eases''', '''easing''', '''eased''')

#To lessen in severity.
#:''The pain '''eased''' overnight.''
#To [[proceed]] with little [[effort]].
#:''The car '''eased''' onto the motorway.''

====Synonyms====
*(''lessen in severity''): [[lessen]], [[reduce]]
*(''proceed with little effort''): [[cruise]]

====Translations====

'''lessen in severity'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''proceed with little effort'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Russian: [[лёгкость]] (в исполнении, для понимания)

===Derived terms===
*[[at ease]]
*[[ease of use]]

===Related terms===
*[[easy]]