==English==
===Pronunciation===
*ĕn, /ɛn/, /<tt>En</tt>/

===Noun===
'''en''' (''plural'' '''ens''')
#The letter [[N]], [[n]].
#In typesetting, the width of an average letter in a [[font]].

===Prefix===
'''en-'''

<!--requires definition(s)-->

===Suffix===
'''-en'''

#Added to some adjectives to form intransitive verbs meaning "to become (the adjective)" and transitive verbs meaning "to make (the adjective").
#:''[[redden]]''
#:''[[deafen]]''
<!--This is not a suffix as it is not appended to another word.  Irregular verbs ending in -en are not formed by appending -en to another word, but have different origins.
#Used in forming the [[past participle]] of some [[irregular verb]]s.
#:''broken''-->
#Used to form the plural of some [[irregular noun]]s.
#:''oxen''

===Preposition===
'''''en'''''<!--italicised-->

#Used in various phrases borrowed from French (see "Derived terms" below).

====Derived terms====
*'''''[[en ami]]'''''
*'''''[[en banc]]'''''
*'''''[[en bloc]]'''''
*'''''[[en brochette]]'''''
*'''''[[en clair]]'''''
*'''''[[en effet]]'''''
*'''''[[en famille]]'''''
*'''''[[en garçon]]'''''
*'''''[[en garde]]'''''
*'''''[[en masse]]'''''
*'''''[[en pantoufles]]'''''
*'''''[[en passant]]'''''
*'''''[[en règle]]'''''
*'''''[[en retard]]'''''
*'''''[[en retraite]]'''''
*'''''[[en revanche]]'''''
*'''''[[en route]]'''''
*'''''[[en secondes noces]]'''''
*'''''[[en suite]]'''''

----

==Dutch==
[en] /en/

# [[and]], ''conjunction'', combining two sentences or parts of sentences or words.

=== Examples ===

''De oude man en de zee'': the old man and the sea. (Title of an Engl. language novel by [[w:Ernest Hemingway|Ernest Hemingway]].)

----

==Finnish==

===Pronunciation===
IPA: /en/

===Negative verb===
'''en'''

# Auxiliary verb for negation in the first person singular. Would be normally translated as [[no]] or [[don't]] in English. 

===Conjugation===
See [[ei#Finnish|ei]].

===Examples===
:''En nyt osaa keksiä hyvää esimerkkiä.'' "I can't think of a good example right now."

==French==
===Pronoun===
# Used as the object of a verb to indicate an indefinite quantity. "''of it''"
===Preposition===
# [[In]].  Used mostly to indicate distance in time or space.

==Ido==
===Preposition===
# '''in'''

==Spanish==
[en] /en/ 

===Preposition===
#  [[in]], [[at]], expressing being contained
#:''Estoy en casa . I am at home''
#:''en esta página''
#  used for time indication
#: ''En la antigüedad''
#: ''En 1999, ...''
#  used before names of languages
#: ''No conozco esta palabra en francés''
#: ''Traducir del inglés al español''
#:''En todos los idiomas''
#  used after some verbs
#: pensar en. ''Pienso en tí''
# used in some expressions
#: ''en el sentido''
#: ''en nuestro afan''

==Swedish==

===En (1)===
====Number====
'''en''' (''in common gender'')

#[[One]].

====Article====
'''en''' (''in common gender'')

#Indefinite article, [[a]], [[an]].

====See also====
*[[ett]]

===En (2)===

====Noun====
'''en''' ''c'' (''singular definite'' '''enen''', ''plural indefinite'' '''enar''', ''plural definite'' '''enarna''')

# [[Juniper]].
[[Category:French prepositions]]

[[et:En]]
[[fr:en]]
[[gl:En]]
[[la:En]]
[[hu:En]]
[[nl:en]]
[[ja:en]]
[[pl:En]]
[[sv:en]]
[[vi:en]]