==English==
===Noun===
'''entry''' (plural '''entries''')
#(''uncountable'') The act of [[enter]]ing.
#Permission to enter.
#:''entry to children only if accompanied by an adult''
#A [[doorway]] that provides a means of entering a building.
#A small [[room]] immediately inside the front door of a house or other building, often having an access to a [[stairway]] and leading on to other rooms.<!--Unnecessary verbiage:
, such as the living room, [[den]], or [[kitchen]]. Also known as a [[foyer]]. In the north of England, it was also used as a term for the passageway set into a [[terrace]] of houses to allow access through to the back.-->
# A small group formed within a church, esp. [[Episcopal]], for simple dinner and fellowship, and to help facilitate new friendships.<!--Encyclopedic:
 Usually several dinners are planned during a set time period, e.g. six months. Members commit to the series and share hosting duties in their homes.-->
#An [[article]] in a [[dictionary]] or [[encyclopedia]].
#A [[record]] made in a [[log]], [[diary]] or similar book.
#:''What does the entry for 2 August 2005 say?''
#{{linearalg}} A [[term]] at any position in a [[matrix]]. 
#:''The entry in the second row and first column of this matrix is 6.''
#{{computing}} An item of data in a database.

====Synonyms====
*(''act of entering''): [[access]], [[enter]]ing, [[entrance]]
*(''permission to enter''): [[access]], [[admission]]
*(''doorway that provides a means of entering a building''): [[entrance]], [[way in]] (''UK'')
*(''room just inside the front door of a building''): [[entrance hall]], [[foyer]], [[hall]], [[vestibule]]
*(''group within a church''):
*(''article in a dictionary or encyclopedia''): [[article]]
*(''record in a log''): [[record]]
*(''term in a matrix''):
*(''item of data in a database''):

====Antonyms====
*(''act of entering''): [[departure]], [[exit]], exiting, [[leave|leaving]]
*(''doorway that provides a means of entering a building''): [[exit]], [[way out]] (''UK'')

====Translations====

'''act of entering'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''permission to enter'''
{{top}}
*French: [[entrée]] ''f'', [[accès]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[entrata]] ''f'', [[accesso]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''doorway that provides a means of entering a building'''
{{top}}
*French: [[entrée]] ''f'', [[accès]] ''m''
*Italian: [[entrata]] ''f'', [[accesso]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[entrada]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''room'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''group within a church'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''article in a dictionary or encyclopedia'''
{{top}}
*French: [[article#French|article]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[articolo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''record in a log'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''term in a matrix'''
{{top}}
*French: [[coefficient#French|coefficient]] ''m''
*German: [[Element]] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[entrata]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[entrada]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''item of data in a database'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[entryway]]
*[[no entry]]

[[it:entry]]