==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]] (US): ĕs"pə-răn'tō, ĕs"pə-rän'tō
*[[w:International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]] (US): /ˌespəˈræntəʊ/, /ˌespəˈrɑːntəʊ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]] (US): /%esp@"r{nt@U/, /%esp@"rAːnt@U/
*[[w:International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]] (?): /ɛspərˈaːntoʊ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]] (?): /Esp@"rA:nt@U/

===Etymology===
:from Esperanto ''esperanto'' (one who hopes), which derives from Latin ''sperare'' (to [[hope]])

===Noun===
'''Esperanto'''

#An international [[auxiliary language]] designed by [[w:L. L. Zamenhof|L. L. Zamenhof]] with a base vocabulary inspired by Indo-European languages such as English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Russian.
#(Metaphorical) Anything that is used as a single international medium in place of plural distinct national media.  Example: "The U.S. dollar is the Esperanto of currency."

====Related Words====
*[[Esperantic]]
*[[Esperantist]]

====Translations====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*[[Basque]]: esperanto
*Bulgarian: [[Есперанто]]
*[[Catalan]]: esperanto ''m''
*Chinese: [[世界语]]/[[世界語]] (Shìjiè-yǔ)
*Czech: esperanto ''n''
*Dutch: Esperanto ''n''
*Esperanto: Esperanto
*Finnish: esperanto
*French: [[espéranto]] ''m''
*German: Esperanto ''n''
*Greek: [[Εσπεράντο]]
*Gujarati: [[એસ્પેરાન્તો]] [[:gu:એસ્પેરાન્તો]]
*[[Hebrew]]: [[אספרנטו]]
*Hindi: [[एस्पेरान्तो]] [[:hi:एस्पेरान्तो]]
*Hungarian: [[Eszperantó]]
*[[Interlingua]]: esperanto
*[[Irish]]: [[Espeirantó]] ''m''
*Italian: esperanto
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Japanese: [[エスペラント]] (esuperanto), [[エスペラント語]] (esuperanto-go)
*[[Klingon]]: [['eSperanto]]
*Korean: [[에스페란토란]]
<!--*Latin: [[aspirans]] ''f'' ?-->
*[[Lojban]]: [[bangrn­esperanto]]
*Norwegian: esperanto
*[[Persian]]: [[اسپرانتو]]
*Polish: esperanto
*Portuguese: esperanto ''m''
*Romanian: esperanto, [[limba esperanto]]
*[[Romanica]]: esperanto ''m''
*Russian: [[эсперанто]]
*[[Sasxsek]]: (ri) esperanto
*[[Serbian]]: [[есперанто]]
*Spanish: esperanto ''m''
*Swedish: esperanto
*[[Toki Pona]]: [[toki Epelanto]]
*Vietnamese: [[tiếng etperantô]]
|}
|}<a href="http://www.uouououo.com" title="注册北京公司">注册北京公司</a>
[url=http://www.uouououo.com/icp1.htm]代办ICP[/url] 
[url]http://www.uouououo.com[/url]注册北京公司
http://www.uouououo.com 注册北京公司
http://www.uouououo.com 北京公司注册
http://www.uouououo.com 代办注册公司
http://www.uouououo.com 代办营业执照
http://www.uouououo.com 北京代办执照
http://www.uouououo.com 办照
http://www.uouououo.com 代办执照

http://www.uouououo.com/icp1.htm 代办ICP 
http://www.uouououo.com/icp1.htm icp 
http://www.uouououo.com/icp1.htm icp认证
http://www.uouououo.com/icp1.htm 北京ICP
http://www.uouououo.com/icp1.htm ICP注册

http://www.uouououo.com/biangengdengji.htm 企业变更
http://www.uouououo.com/ntijiao.htm 年检
http://www.uouououo.com/zengzi.htm 增资
http://www.uouououo.com/zengzi.htm 北京增资
http://www.uouououo.com/jizhang1.htm 北京会计公司
http://www.uouououo.com/jizhang1.htm 北京代理记帐
http://www.uouououo.com/jizhang1.htm 代理记帐
http://www.uouououo.com/jizhang1.htm 会计公司
http://www.uouououo.com/jizhang1.htm 会计

http://www.uouououo.com/zenzhishui.htm 代办增值税
http://www.uouououo.com/zenzhishui.htm 代办一般纳税人
http://www.uouououo.com/zenzhishui.htm 增值税

http://www.uouououo.com/zenzhishui1.htm 一般纳税人 
http://www.uouououo.com/gaoxin.htm 高新技术认证 
http://www.uouououo.com/shuangruan1.htm 双软认证
http://www.uouououo.com/shuangruan1.htm 双软认定
http://www.99sheji.com 网站建设
http://www.99sheji.com/wzjs/wzjs.asp 网站建设
http://www.99sheji.com 北京网站建设

==== External links====
{{interwiktionary|code=es}}
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Esperanto-english/ Esperanto - English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster's Dictionary] - the Rosetta Edition.
*[http://www.uni-leipzig.de/esperanto/voko/revo/ Reta Vortaro] (short : ReVo) a multingual dictionary with esperanto definitions and translations in many languages. Project started in 1997. You can link from Wikimedia project to ReVo typing <nowiki>[[ReVo:vort|vorto]]</nowiki> (= word) which becomes : [[ReVo:vort|vorto]]. See also [[Wiktionary:Reta Vortaro|ReVo]]

----

==[[Catalan]]==
===Noun===
'''esperanto''' ''m''
# Esperanto.

----

==Czech==
===Noun===
'''esperanto''' ''n''
# Esperanto.

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''Esperanto''' ''n''
# Esperanto.

----

==Esperanto==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: /es.pe&#712;ran.to/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /es pe"ran to/

===Etymology===
:from Esperanto verb ''[[esperi]]'' (to hope), which derives from Latin ''sperare'' (to [[hope]])

===Noun===
'''Esperanto'''
# One who hopes.
#An international [[auxiliary language]] designed by [[w:L. L. Zamenhof|L. L. Zamenhof]] with a base vocabulary inspired by Indo-European languages such as English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Russian.
===See also===
*[[esperantisto]]

----

==Finnish==
===Noun===
'''esperanto'''
# Esperanto.

----

==German==
===Noun===
'''Esperanto''' ''n''
# Esperanto.

----

==[[Interlingua]]==
===Noun===
'''esperanto''' ''n''
# Esperanto.

----

==Italian==
===Noun===
'''esperanto''' ''m''
# Esperanto.
===See also===
*[[esperantista]]

----

==Norwegian==
===Noun===
'''esperanto'''
# Esperanto.

----




==Polish==
===Noun===
'''esperanto'''
# Esperanto.

----

==Portuguese==
===Noun===
'''esperanto''' ''m''
# Esperanto.

----

==Romanian==
===Noun===
'''esperanto'''
# Esperanto.

----

==[[Romanica]]==
===Noun===
'''esperanto''' ''m''
# Esperanto.
----

==Spanish==
===Noun===
'''esperanto''' ''m''
# Esperanto.

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''esperanto'''

# Esperanto.


[[af:Esperanto]]
[[ar:Esperanto]]
[[be:Esperanto]]
[[bg:Esperanto]]
[[ca:Esperanto]]
[[cs:Esperanto]]
[[cy:Esperanto]]
[[da:Esperanto]]
[[de:Esperanto]]
[[el:Esperanto]]
[[eo:Esperanto]]
[[es:Esperanto]]
[[et:Esperanto]]
[[eu:Esperanto]]
[[fa:Esperanto]]
[[fi:Esperanto]]
[[fr:Esperanto]]
[[gl:Esperanto]]
[[he:Esperanto]]
[[hi:Esperanto]]
[[hu:Esperanto]]
[[ia:Esperanto]]
[[is:Esperanto]]
[[it:Esperanto]]
[[ja:Esperanto]]
[[ko:Esperanto]]
[[lt:Esperanto]]
[[nds:Esperanto]]
[[nl:Esperanto]]
[[no:Esperanto]]
[[oc:Esperanto]]
[[pl:Esperanto]]
[[pt:Esperanto]]
[[ro:Esperanto]]
[[ru:Esperanto]]
[[sk:Esperanto]]
[[sl:Esperanto]]
[[sq:Esperanto]]
[[sr:Esperanto]]
[[sv:Esperanto]]
[[sw:Esperanto]]
[[tr:Esperanto]]
[[uk:Esperanto]]
[[vi:Esperanto]]
[[zh:Esperanto]]