===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: ĕt"ə-mŏl'ə-jē
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˌetɪˈmɒlədʒɪ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /%etI"mQl@dZI/

===Etymology===
From [[Old French]] ''ethimologie'', which, via [[Latin]], ''etymologia'' is derived from [[Greek]] ''etumologia''. The Greek word in turn is made from ''etumon'' or true and the word ''logos'', "discourse" or "one who discourses" (depending on the form of the words). 
Literally, etymology means "the discourse of truth".

===Noun===
'''etymology''' (plural: [[etymologies]])

# the study of the origin of words. The word can be used to describe the science dealing with the origin of words.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''a. 1571''' The ''etymology'' which the Dorians give, seems indeed more probable, than that of the Athenians; for how can Comodein, be made of the word Comazein. - Lodovico Castelvetro, ''Aristotle's Art of Poetry'', Page 28.
#:*'''1583''' Amonge all other Artes, forgett not the Mathematikes. for the ''Etymologie'' of their name, exhortes you to learne them. - Brian Melbancke, ''Philotimus'' (1583), Page 98.
#:*'''1693''' But in former times, the Name of Satire was given to Poems, which were compos'd of several sorts of Verses; such as were made by Ennius, and Pacuvius; more fully expressing the ''Etymology'' of the word Satire, from Satura, which we have observ'd - John Dryde, ''The Satires of Decimus Junius Juvenalis'', Page 26.
# the origin of a word (''The etymology of this word can be found below under '''etymology''''').

====Related terms====
*[[etymological]]
*[[etymologist]]

*[[folk etymology]]

====Translations====
*[[Basque]]: [[etimologia]]
*[[Bulgarian]]: [[етимология]] ''f''
*[[Catalan]]: [[Etimologia]]
*[[Chinese]]: [[语源]], [[语源学]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[etymologie]] ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[etimologio]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[etymologia]]
*[[French]]: [[étymologie]]
*[[German]]: [[Etymologie]] ''f''
*[[Hebrew]]: [[אטימולוגיה]]
*[[Italian]]: [[etimologia]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[語源]] (gogen)
*[[Latin]]: [[etymologia]]
*[[Persian]]: [[ریشه‌شناسی]] (rishe-shenasi)
*[[Polish]]: [[źródłosłów]] ''m'', [[etymologia]] ''f''
*[[Portuguese]]: [[etimologia]] ''f''
*[[Romanian]]: [[etimologie]] ''f''
*[[Romanica]]: [[etymologia]] ''f''
*[[Russian]]: [[этимология]] ''f''
*[[Spanish]]: [[etimología]] ''f''
*[[Swedish]]: [[etymologi]]

===See also===
*[[wikipedia]] article on [[w:etymology|etymology]]