<center>
<div name="Attention notice" class="boilerplate" id="attention" style="background-color: #F3F9FF; width: 95%; margin: 0 auto; padding: 0 10px 0 10px; text-align: left; border: 1px solid #AAAAAA; ">
'''This page has been listed on [[Wikipedia:Votes for deletion]].'''<br />
Please see [[Wikipedia:Votes for deletion/{{PAGENAME}}|its entry on that page]] for justifications and discussion. If you don't want the page deleted, please read the deletion guidelines and vote against its deletion there. Please do not remove this notice or blank this page while the question is being considered. However, you are welcome to make improvements to it[[Template:Vfd|.]]
</div>
</center>
[[Category:Pages on votes for deletion]]

To have "the fantods" is to be in a state of nervousness, distress, or anxiety.

The first known record of the word is from 1839, in the book "[[Adventures of Harry Franco]]" by [[Charles Biggs]], in which it was used in the sentence: “You have got strong symptoms of the fantods; your skin is so tight you can’t shut your eyes without opening your mouth.”

[[Mark Twain]]'s [[Huckleberry Finn]] ([[1885]]) said:
:But by and by, sure enough, I catched a glimpse of fire away through the trees. I went for it, cautious and slow. By and by I was close enough to have a look, and there laid a man on the ground. It most give me the fantods.

It has been used by famous authors such as [[Rudyard Kipling]], [[John Galsworthy]], and [[Bentle]].  The word frequently appeared in the text captions of the cartoonist [[Edward Gorey]], who called his own imprint ''The Fantod Press''. 

{{stub}}