==English==
===Pronunciation===
*fä(r)'si, /ˈfɑː(r)si/, /"fA:rsi/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɑː(r)si|Rhymes: -ɑː(r)si]]
*fä(r)'sē, /ˈfɑː(r)siː/, /"fA:rsi:/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɑː(r)siː|Rhymes: -ɑː(r)siː]]

===Etymology===
Directly from the local term for the province of Persis ("[[Pars]]") in southern Iran, adopted by Persians to refer to their language after Islamic invasions in the 7th century. Since arabs do not have the letter "P" in their alphabets they changed it to "Fars" and "Farsi". I just remembered a joke in this context so here I go.

An arab ( Arabs can not pronounce P and replace it with B ; if you have not noticed it then listen carefully when an Arab speaks next time ) went downtown and wasn't sure if he could park his car on the side of the street. He went to police officer who happened to be there and ask, "Can I bark here sir?". The Police officer looked at the Arab and asked him to repeat his question as he wasn't sure if he heard right. The Arab said, "I said can I bark here sir?". The police officer being amazed said, "Yes you can but not very loud as you might disturb the people".

===Proper noun===
#the national language of Iran.

===Usage note===
*'''Farsi''' is the Arabicized form of the native term ''Parsi'', and its use in the English language is very recent. Native Persian speakers typically call it "Farsi" in modern usage. '''[[Persian]]''', the more widely used and official name of the language in [[English language|English]], is the Hellenized form of ''Parsi''. [[ISO]], the [[w:Academy of Persian Language and Literature|Academy of Persian Language and Literature]], and many other sources call the language Persian. The government of Afghanistan uses both "Dari" and "Persian" in English communications.
*The Academy of Persian Language and Literature as well as most linguists and lexicographers believe that "Farsi" is not an appropriate term to use for the Persian language in English. In the [[w:ISO 639-1|ISO 639-1]], the local names form the basis for the language codes and for this reason "fa" is the designation for the Persian language in that system.

====Translations====
*'''Arabic''': [[فارسي]]
*'''Armenian''': [[Պարսկերեն]] (Parskakan)
*'''Belarusian''': [[Пэрсійдзкая]] (Persíjdzkaja)
*'''Chinese''': [[波斯语]] (Po-se)
*'''Czech''': [[Perský]]
*'''Dutch''': [[Perzisch]]
*'''German''': [[Persisch]]
*'''Estonian''': [[Pärsia]]
*'''Farsi''': [[فارسی]]
*'''Faeroese''': [[Persiskt]]
*'''Finnish''': [[Persia]]
*'''French''': [[Persan]]
*'''Georgian''': [[ფარსიული]] [[ფარსიული]]
*'''Modern Greek''': [[Περσικά]] (Persika)
*'''Hebrew''': [[פרסית]] (farsít)
*'''Hindi''': [[फारसी]]
*'''Hungarian''': [[Perzsa]]
*'''Croatian''': [[Perzijski]]
*'''Japanese''': [[ファールシー]]
*'''Korean''': [[팔시어]]
*'''Nepali''': [[पर्सियन]]
*'''Russian''': [[персидский]] (persídskij)
*'''Vietnamese''': [[tiếng Ba Tư]]

===See also===
*[[Iran]]
*[[Iranian]]
*[[Persia]]
*[[Persian]]
*[[Dari]]

==== External links====
*[http://www.farsidic.com Persian-English Dictionary]

[[nl:Persian]]