==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: făt
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /fæt/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /f{t/
**[[Rhymes:English:-æt|Rhymes: -æt]]

=== Noun ===
'''fat''' (''[[uncountable]] and countable''; ''plural'' '''fats''')

#(''uncountable'') A specialized animal tissue with a high oil content, used for long-term storage of energy.
#(''countable'') A refined substance chemically resembling the oils in animal fat.
#That part of an organization deemed wasteful.
#:''We need to trim the fat in this company''
# Guys who get screwed.... Not in the good way.
#(''countable''; ''obsolete'') A large tub, cistern, or vessel; a vat.

====Synonyms====
*(''animal tissue''): [[adipose tissue]], [[lard]] (''in animals''; ''derogatory slang when used of human fat'')
*(''substance chemically resembling the oils in animal fat''): [[grease]], [[lard]]
*(''tub''): [[vat]]

====Quotations====

(''vat''):
*'''1882''': In 1431 New College purchases brewing vessels, under the names of a mash fat, for 6s. 10d., a wort fat for 2s., a 'Gilleding' tub for 2s. 6d., and two tunning barrels at 8d. each, a leaden boiler for 24s., another for 12s., and a great copper beer pot for 13s. 4d. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', volume 4, page 429.

==== Translations ====

'''specialized animal tissue with a high oil content, used for long-term storage of energy'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[gras]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''refined substance chemically resembling the oils in animal fat'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[gras]] ''m'', [[matière grasse]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''that part of an organization deemed wasteful'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''vat'''
''See'' [[vat]]

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Bulgarian: [[мазнина]] ''f''
*Czech: [[tuk]] ''m''
*Danish: [[fedt]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[vet]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[rasva]] (1, 2), [[läski]] (1), [[liiat]] ''pl'' (3)
*Italian: [[grasso]] ''m''
*Russian: (žir) ''m''
*Slovak: [[tuk]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[grasa]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[fett]] (1,2)
*Urdu: [[چربى]]

=== Adjective ===
'''fat''' ([[fatter]], [[fattest]])

#Carrying a larger than normal amount of fat on one's body.
#Thick.
#:''fat chunks of meat''
#Bountiful.
#:''seven fat years followed by seven lean years''
#Variant form of '''[[phat]]'''.

==== Synonyms ====
*(''carrying a larger than normal amount of fat''): [[chubby]], [[chunky]], [[lardy]] (''slang'') [[obese]], [[overweight]], [[porky]] (''slang''), [[rotund]], [[tubby]]
*(''thick''): [[thick]]
*(''bountiful''): [[bountiful]], [[prosperous]]

==== Antonyms ====
*(''carrying a larger than normal amount of fat''): [[lean]], [[skinny]], [[slim]], [[thin]]

==== Translations ====

'''carrying a larger than normal amount of fat on one's body'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[gros]] ''m'', [[grosse]] ''f''
*German: [[dick#German|dick]]; [[fett]]
*Irish: [[ramhar]]
*Italian: [[grosso]] ''m'', grossa ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Spanish: [[gordo]] ''m'', [[gorda]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''thick'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[dick#German|dick]]; [[fett]]
*Irish: [[ramhar]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''bountiful'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Bulgarian: [[дебел]] ''m''
*Danish: [[fed#Danish|fed]]
*Dutch: [[vet]], [[vette]], [[dik]], [[dikke]], [[gezet]], [[gezette]]
*Finnish: [[lihava]] (1, 3), [[paksu]] (1, 2), [[satoisa]] (3), [[runsas]] (3, 4)
*Swedish: [[fet]] (1, 2, 3, 4), [[tjock]] (1, 2), [[rik]] (3, 4)
*Urdu: [[موٹا]] ''m'', [[موٹى]] ''f''

=== Transitive verb===
'''to fat'''

#(''archaic'') To make fat; to [[fatten]].
#: ''Kill the fatted calf''

====Translations====
*Danish: [[opfede]]
*Finnish: [[lihottaa]]
*Swedish: [[göda]]

===Related terms===
*[[fatten]]

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''fat''' ''n'' (''plural'' '''fat''', ''definite singular'' [[fatet]], ''definite plural'' [[faten]])

#[[plate]] (''serving dish'')

[[es:fat]]
[[it:fat]]
[[ro:Fat]]
[[ru:Fat]]