==English==
=== fine (1) ===
=== Noun ===
'''fine''' (''plural'' '''fines''')

<!-- is this for real? -->
# (''usually plural'') something that is fine; fine particles
#* ''They filtered silt and fines out of the oil.''

=== Adjective ===
'''fine''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''finer''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''finest''')

# Of superior quality.
#* ''The tree frog that they encountered was truly a '''fine''' specimen.''
#* ''Only a really '''fine''' wine could fully compliment Lucía's hand-made pasta.''
# Of a particular grade of quality, usually between ''[[very good]]'' and ''[[very fine]]'', and below ''[[mint]]''.
#* ''The small scratch meant that his copy of ''X-Men #2'' was merely '''''fine''''' when it otherwise would ahve been ''near mint''.''
# (''of weather'') Sunny and not raining.
# Passable; adequate; satisfactory; acceptable.
#* ''"How are you today?" "'''Fine'''."''
#* ''"Will this one do?  It's got a dent in it" "Yeah, it'll be '''fine''', I guess."''
#* ''"It's '''fine''' with me if you stay out late, so long as you're back by three."''
# Good-looking, attractive.
#* ''"That man is so '''fine''' that I'd jump into his pants without a moment's hesitation."''
# Consisting of especially [[minute]] [[particulate]]; made up of particularly small pieces.
#* ''Grind it into a '''fine''' powder.''
#* ''When she touched the artifact, it collapsed into a heap of '''fine''' dust.''
# Particularly slender; especially thin, narrow, or of small girth.
#* ''The threads were so '''fine''' that you had to look through a magnifying glass to see them.''
# Made of slender or thin filaments.
#* ''They protected themselves from the small parasites with a '''fine''' wire mesh.''


====Translations====
*{{sv}}: [[fin]] (1,4,5), [[fint]] (1,2,4), [[bra]] (1,2)

=== fine (2) ===
==== Noun ====
'''fine'''

# A [[payment]] or [[fee]] issued as [[punishment]] for breaking the law.
#* ''The '''fine''' for jay-walking has gone from two dollars to thirty in the last fifteen years.''

===== Translations =====
*French: [[amende]] ''f''
*German: [[Geldstrafe]] ''f''
*Italian: [[multa#Italian|multa]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[multa#Portuguese|multa]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[multa#Spanish|multa]] ''f''
*{{sv}}: [[bot]] ''c''

==== Transitive verb ====
'''to fine''' (''[[present participle]]'' '''fining''', ''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''fined''')

# To issue a fine as punishment to (someone).
#* ''She was '''fined''' a thousand dollars for littering, but she appealed.''

====Translations====
*{{sv}}: [[bötfälla]]

=== fine (3) ===
==== Noun ====
'''fine'''

# The end of a musical composition.
# The location in a musical score that indicates the end of the piece, particularly when the piece ends somewhere in the middle of the score due to a section of the music being repeated.

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

----

==French==
===Adjective===
'''fine''' ''f''

#Feminine form of [[fin]].

----
==Italian==
===Adjective===
'''fine''' ''m and f'' (''plural'' '''fini''')

#[[thin]]
#fine
#[[refined]]

====Synonyms====
*[[sottile]]
*[[elegante]]
*[[acuto]]

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[finis]]''

====Noun====
'''fine''' ''f'' (''plural'' '''fini''')

#[[end]]

====Noun====
'''fine''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''fini''')

#[[aim]], [[purpose]], [[end]]

===Related terms===
*[[finale]]
*[[finezza]]
*[[finire]]
*[[fino]]
*[[alla fine]]
*[[fine settimana]]

==Swedish==
===Adjective===
;fine
#''see [[fin]]''

[[fr:fin]]
[[io:Fine]]
[[it:fine]]