===Noun===
'''flag'''

# a piece of [[cloth]], often decorated with an emblem, used as a visual [[signal]] or [[symbol]].
#: Most countries, and many smaller political divisions, have a recognizable flag as a symbol.
#: Some signaling systems use flags to transmit messages, such as [[semaphore]] and nautical signal flags.
#: In [[American football]], yellow flags are used to indicate penalties.
# (''Computers'') a [[binary]] [[variable]] used to indicate when an event or condition occurs.
#:A special mark indicating that a piece of data is unusual.
# a [[flagstone]].

===Adjective===

# Of or pertaining to an [[admiral]], [[commodore]], or [[general]] officer
:''Captains park in the second row, flag officers next to the building.''

====Translations====
*[[Catalan]]: [[bandera]] ''f''
*Danish: flag ''n''
*Dutch: [[vlag]] ''f'', [[vaandel]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[lippu]] (1, 2) ([[:fi:lippu|Suomi]])
*French: [[drapeau]] ''m''
*German: [[Flagge]] ''f'' (1), [[Bitschalter]] ''m'' (2), [[Fliese]] ''f'' (3)
*Hungarian [[zászló]] (1), [[jelzőbit]] (2), [[járdalap]] (3)
*Indonesian: [[bendera]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[ala]] ''f''
*[[Lao]]: [[ທຸງ]]
*Romanian: [[drapel]] ''n'', [[steag]] ''n'', [[stindard]] ''n''
*Slovene: [[zastava]] ''f'' (1)
*Spanish: [[bandera]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[flagga]] (1,2), [[fana]] (1)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[plag]] (1)

===Transitive verb===
'''to flag'''

# to signal (an event).
#: ''The compiler flagged three errors.''
# (often with ''down'') to signal (someone) to stop.
#: ''Please flag a taxi down for me.''

====Translations====
*Danish: [[signalere]] (1); [[tilkalde]] (2)
*Swedish: [[signalera]] (1), [[flagga för]] (1)

===Intransitive verb===

# to [[weaken]].
#: ''His strength flagged toward the end of the race.

====Translations====
*Danish: [[svækkes]]
*Dutch: [[verzwakken]]
*French: [[affaiblir]]
*German: [[erlahmen]]

[[it:flag]]
[[pl:Flag]]