==English==
===Pronunciation===
*flăt, /flæt/, /<tt>fl{t</tt>/
*[[Rhymes:English:-æt|Rhymes: -æt]]

=== Noun===
'''flat''' (''plural'' '''flats''')

# (''music'') a note played a [[semitone]] lower than a [[natural]].  It is denoted by the [[&#9837;]] sign following the letter representing the note (''eg'', B&#9837;)
#(''especially British'') An [[apartment]].
#(''colloquial'') A '''flat''' tyre/tire.
# a type of ladies shoe with very low heels
#* She liked to walk on her '''flats''' more than on her high-heels.
#(''painting'') a thin, broad brush used in oil and watercolor painting.
====Synonyms====
*(2): [[apartment]]

====Antonyms====
*(1): [[sharp]]

====Translations====
*Danish: (2): [[lejlighed]] ''c''
*French: (1): [[bémol]] ''m''; (2) [[appartement]] ''m''
*German: (2): [[Wohnung]] ''f''
*Italian: (2): [[appartamento]] ''m''
*[[Neapolitan]]: (2): [[quartìno]] {{m}}
*Polish: (1): [[bemol]] ''m''; (2): [[mieszkanie]] ''n''
*Swedish: [[lägenhet]] ''c'' (2), [[punktering]] (3), [[punka]] (3 ''colloquialää)

=== Adjective ===
'''flat''' ('''flatter''', '''flattest''')

#Having no variations in [[altitude]].
#*The land around here is '''flat'''.
#(''tyre/tire'') Deflated.
#(''voice'') Without variations in pitch.
#(''music'') (''note'') Lowered by one semitone.
#(''music'') (''note, voice'') Lower in pitch than it should be.
#Uninteresting.
#*The party was a bit '''flat'''.

====Synonyms====
*(1): [[even]], [[planar]], [[plane]], [[smooth]], [[uniform]]
*(3): [[monotone]]
*(6): [[boring]], [[dull]], [[uninteresting]]

====Antonyms====
*(4,5): [[sharp]] 
* hilly
* [[cratered]]
* [[wrinkled]]
====Translations====
*Danish: (1): [[flad]]
*Dutch: (1): [[vlak]], [[plat#Dutch|plat]]
*French: (1): [[plan#French|plan]] ''m'', plane ''f''
*German: (1,3): [[flach]]; (2) [[platt]]
*Indonesian: (1): [[rata]], [[datar]]
*Italian: (1): [[piano#French|piano]] ''m'', piana ''f''
*Japanese: (1): [[平ら]] ([[たいら]], taira)
*Polish: (1): [[płaski]] ''m'', [[płaska]] ''f'', [[płaskie]] ''n''
*Romanian: (1): [[plat#Romanian|plat]] ''m'', plată ''f''
*Spanish: (1): [[plano]]
*Swedish: (1): flat, [[plan#Swedish|plan]]

=== Verb ===
'''flatten''' '''flattened''' '''flattening'''
* The prize [[fighter]] quickly '''flattened''' the [[challenger]].
* Mary would '''flatten''' the [[dough]] before rolling it into [[pretzel]]s.
===Adverb===
'''flat''' '''flatly'''   
#So as to be '''flat'''.
#*Spread the tablecloth '''flat''' over the table.
#Bluntly.
#*I asked him if he wanted to marry me and he turned me down '''flatly'''.
#(''with units of time, distance, etc'') Not exceeding.
#*He can run a mile in four minutes '''flat'''.
#Completely.
#*I am '''flat''' broke this month.
====Translations ====
*Danish: (1): [[fladt]]
*German: (1): [[flach]]; (4): [[völlig]], [[vollkommen]]
*Polish: (1): [[płasko]]
*Swedish: [[platt]] (1), [[blankt]] (3), [[helt]], [[helt och hållet]], [[totalt]] (4)

===Related terms===
*[[flat out]]
*[[that's flat]]

----

==Swedish==
===Adjective===
'''flat'''

# flat; no variations in altitude

[[it:flat]]
[[hu:Flat]]
[[pl:Flat]]
[[ru:Flat]]
{{BE-ready}}
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]