'''Flexitarianism''' is the practice of being flexible about the degree one practices [[vegetarianism]] or [[veganism]].  A flexitarian might make only vegetarian dishes at home, but eat dishes including [[meat]] at the home of family or friends. In [[2003]], the American Dialect Society voted ''flexitarian'' as the year's most useful word, and defined it as "a vegetarian who occasionally eats meat."

===Why Flexitarianism===

Ethically, flexitarians tend not to lean towards vegetarianism due to [[animal rights]] concerns, as there would be a stringent moral rule involved. Some reasons people choose to follow flexitarianism are as follows:

* They believe vegetarian food conserves water and land resources.
* They believe vegetarian food feeds more people.
* Some, like [[freegan]]s, believe that wasting already-cooked food does more damage than eating it.
* They are not ethically opposed to eating meat, but find a vegetarian diet to be less expensive.
* Other members of their household are vegetarian and flexitarian diet is more convenient.
* They consider a vegetarian diet to be healthier, but enjoy eating meat.

===Origin of term===

The earliest known use of the term "flexitarian" occurred in the [[October 17]], [[1992]] issue of the ''Austin American-Statesman''. In this issue, reporter Linda Anthony wrote an article titled, "Acorn serves up 'flexitarian fare'". The article discussed the recent opening of the new Acorn Cafe and stated that owner Helga Morath calls her fare "flexitarian".

==External links==
* [http://www.mediterrasian.com/delicious_recipes.htm Many Flexitarian-friendly recipes]
* [http://msnbc.msn.com/id/4541605/ Are you a 'flexitarian?']
* [http://www.veggieboards.com VeggieBoards] (message boards and recipes)