===Pronunciation===
*flīt, /flaɪt/, /<tt>flaIt</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-aɪt|Rhymes: -aɪt]]

===Noun===
'''flight''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''flights''')

#The act of [[fly]]ing.
#:''Birds are capable of flight''
#An instance of flying.
#:''The migrating birds' flight took them to Africa.''
#A collective term for [[dove]]s or [[swallow]]s.
#A journey made by a plane or space shuttle. It isn't used for journeys of other air or space vehicles.
#:''The flight to Paris leaves at 7 o'clock tonight''
#The act of [[flee]]ing. (It is noun version of flee).
#:''take flight'''
#A set of stairs or an escalator. 
#A floor which are reached to by stairs or escalators.
#''How many flights is it up?''
#A [[feather]] on an [[arrow]] or [[dart]] used to help it follow an even path.
#A paper plane.
#{{cricket}} The [[movement]] of a [[spinning]] [[ball]] through the [[air]] - concerns its [[speed]], [[trajectory]] and [[drift]]
#The [[ballistic]] [[trajectory]] of an [[arrow]] or other [[projectile]].
#A [[Aerodynamics|aerodynamic]] surfaces designed to guide such a projectile's trajectory.
#Act of fleeing of a [[refugee]] or a [[fugitive]].
#An [[air force]] unit
#A series of stairs between [[Landing|landings]].

===Adjective===

#(obscure or slang) Wayward, opposed.
#:Nowadays we refer to people being [[flighty]] instead.



====Translations====


'''act of flying'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Danish: [[flyvning]] ''c''
*[[Finnish]]: [[lento]]
*Dutch: [[vlucht]] ''f'', [[vliegen]] ''n''
*German: [[Flug]] ''m''
*[[Guarani]]: [[veve]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Interlingua]]: [[volo]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[firr]]
*Portuguese: [[vôo]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[zbor]] ''n''
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[bebé]]
*[[Turkish:]] [[uçma]]
|}
|}
'''instance of flying'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''group of doves or swallows'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}


'''journey made by an aircraft'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[volo]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[flight]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''act of fleeing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[fuite]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[flykt]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''set of stairs'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''feather on an arrow'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[flight path]]
*[[in-flight]]
*[[maiden flight]]
*[[take flight]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[it:flight]]
[[fi:Flight]]