==English==
===Pronunciation===
*/ˌflɒkɪˌnɒkɪˌnɪhɪlɪˌpɪlɪfɪˈkeɪʃən/
*/ˌflɒksɪˌnɔːsɪˌnaɪəlɪˌpɪlɪfɪˈkeɪʃən/

===Etymology===
Latin "flocci", "nauci", "nihili", "pili", all meaning "worthless", + [[-fication]]

===Noun===
'''floccinaucinihilipilification''' (''uncountable'')

#The act or habit of describing something as worthless.

===Notes===
Often used as an example of the longest non-technical word in the English language.

====Translations====
*German: [[Geringschätzung]] ''f'''''Floccinaucinihilipilification''' is the act or habit of esteeming or describing something as worthless, or making something to be worthless by said means.

It is pronounced \'flä-chE-'nau-chE-ni-'hi-lE-'pi-lE-fI-'ca-shun\. ([http://www.m-w.com/aschart.htm Pronunciation Symbols])
It may also be pronounced "FLOK-sih-noh-see-NEE-hee-lee-PEE-lih-fih-KAY-shun".

It is the [[Longest word in English|longest non-technical word]] in the first edition of the ''[[Oxford English Dictionary]]'' (''OED''), where it dates back to 1741.  The first use the ''OED'' gives is from the poet [[William Shenstone]] in [[1741]]: "I loved him for nothing so much as his flocci-nauci-nihili-pili-fication of money".

It is said to have been made up as an erudite joke by an [[Eton College]] student, who, upon consulting a Latin textbook, found four words meaning 'nothing' or 'worthless,' tacked them all together, and added verb endings. This was presented in "a well-known rule from the Eton Latin Grammar", as for example:
*''flocci'' - Latin, "a sheep's fleece or piece of wool", as in ''flocci non facio'' - "I don't care" (literally "I couldn't give a sheep's fleece)
*''nauci'' - Latin, "of the trifle"
*''nihil'' - Latin, "nothing"
*''pili'' - Latin, "the hairs", by implication small and insignificant

In fact, as given in the OED, the word includes four sets of [[quotation mark]]s and is presented thus:
:'''"Flocci" "nauci" "nihili" "pili" fication'''
The OED appears to have overlooked the more popular present form, ''floccinaucinihilipilificatious'', which has one letter more than the nominal form, and means "small" or "insignificant."

It is often spelled with hyphens, and has even spawned the [[back formation]]s: ''floccinaucical'' ("inconsiderable, trifling") and ''floccinaucity'' ("thing of small importance").