==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /flɔː(r)/
*:Homophones: [[flaw]] (''in [[non-rhotic]] accents'')
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)/|Rhymes: -ɔː(r)/]]

===Noun===
'''floor''' (''plural'' '''floors''')

#The bottom or lower part of any room; the supporting surface of a room.
#A structure formed of beams, girders, etc, with proper covering, which divides a building horizontally into [[storey]]s/[[story|stories]].
#The supporting surface or platform of a structure such as a bridge.
#A [[storey]]/[[story]] of a building.
#In a [[legislative assembly]], the part of the house assigned to the members.
#(''US'') Hence, the right to speak at a given time in a legislative assembly.
#(''nautical'') That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelson which is most nearly horizontal.
#(''mining'') The rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit.
#(''mining'') A horizontal, flat ore body.

====Synonyms====
*(right to speak): (''British'') [[possession]]

===Translations===

'''lower part of a room'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Estonian: [[põrand]]
*Finnish: [[lattia]]
*French: [[sol]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*German: [[Boden]] ''m''
*Irish: [[urlár]] ''m''
*Italian: [[pavimento]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[golv]] ''n''
|}
|}

'''horizontal structure dividing a building'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{de}}: [[Decke]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''storey/story'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[étage]] ''m''
*{{de}}: [[Etage]] ''f'', [[Geschoß]] ''n''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[piano#Italian|piano]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[våning]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''supporting surface of a structure'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{de}}: [[Plattform]] ''f'', [[Decke]] ''f'' 
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''part of the house assigned to the members of a legislative assembly'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{de}}: [[Etage]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''right to speak in a legislative assembly'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''near-horizontal part of a vessel'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''horizontal, flat ore body'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

Still to be transferred to tables (numbers might not match up)
*Danish: [[gulv]] ''n'' (1); [[dæk]] ''n'' (2); [[etage]] ''c'' (4)
*Slovene: [[tla]] ''n pl'' (1), [[nadstropje]] ''n'' (4)

===Transitive verb===
'''to floor''' (''[[present participle]]'' '''flooring''', ''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''floored''')

#To cover (something) with a floor; to furnish (something) with a floor.
#:''floor a house with pine boards''
#To strike down or lay level (something or someone) with the floor; to knock (something or someone) down
#Hence, to silence (someone) by a conclusive answer or retort.
#:''floor an opponent''
#:''Floored or crushed by him.'' &mdash; Coleridge
#(''colloquial'') To finish or make an end of (something).
#:''floor a college examination''
#:''I've floored my little-go work'' &mdash; ed Hughes

====Translations====

'''cover with a floor'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{de}}: [[belegen]]
*Swedish: [[lägga golv]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''strike down'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{de}}: [[niederschlagen]]
*Swedish: [[golva]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''silence with a conclusive answer'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{de}}: [[niederschmettern]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''colloquial: to finish or make an end of'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

To be checked and transferred to the appropriate table(s) by native speakers (numbering might not be correct):
*Danish: [[lægge gulv]] (1); [[nedlægge]] (2)


===Related terms===
*[[floor cloth]] <!--{Floor cloth}, a heavy fabric, painted, varnished, or saturated, with waterproof material, for covering floors; oilcloth. -->
*[[floor cramp]] <!--{Floor cramp}, an implement for tightening the seams of floor boards before nailing them in position. -->
*[[floor light]] <!-- {Floor light}, a frame with glass panes in a floor. -->
*[[flooring]]
*[[floor plan]] <!-- {Floor plan}. 
   (a) (Shipbuilding) A longitudinal section, showing a ship
       as divided at the water line.
   (b) (Arch.) A horizontal section, showing the thickness of
       the walls and partitions, arrangement of passages,
       apartments, and openings at the level of any floor of
       a house.
-->

[[Category:English concrete nouns]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[it:floor]]
[[hu:floor]]
[[fi:Floor]]