===Etymology===
First use in print is 16th century, but the word is probably much older.  Compare with Swedish ''[[focka]]'' and Dutch ''[[fokken]]'' (to breed). The Indo-European origins are largely hypothetical, and are based on a common root meaning "to strike."  This has led to the Latin ''[[pugnus]]'' fist, and several other derivations in a wide range of Indo-European and Mediterranean languages.

The popular etymology whereby "fuck" is an acronym meaning "For Unlawful Carnal Knowledge" has no basis in fact.

There are many words used euphemistically for fuck such as the f-word, four letter word, [[naff]].

===Verb===
'''to fuck''' ([[fucked]], fucked)
:Used both transitively and intransitively
#To have sexual intercourse, to copulate: "we fucked all night long"
#To insert one's penis (or dildo, or a specified object) into a specified body part: "fuck my ass"; "fuck me with your fingers!"
#To put in an extremely difficult or impossible situation: "if you do that, I'm fucked"
#To break or trash: "the TV's fucked"
#''(slang - intransitive):'' Playing, fooling (as in "he was just fucking around")

====Synonyms====
*[[screw]] (US)
*[[shag]] (British)
*[[root]] (Aus)

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: verbs: [[еба]] (1,2), [[прецаквам]] (3), [[развалям]] (4), [[шегувам се]] (5)
*Dutch: [[neuken]]
*Finnish: [[naida]], [[panna]], [[nussia]]; [[vittu]] ("voi vittu", oh fuck)
*French: [[baiser]]
*German: [[ficken]]
*Italian: [[fottere]] (to fuck)
*Latin: [[futuere]]
*Romanian: [[futa]]
*Swedish: [[knulla]]
*Portuguese: [[foder]]
*Spanish: [[joder]], [[coger]], [[follar]], [[chingar]] (Mexico)

===Noun===
'''fuck''' (plural: [[fucks]])
#The act of sexual intercourse: "that was a great fuck"
#A sexual partner: "she's a good fuck"

====Synonyms====
*[[screw]] (US)
*[[shag]] (British)
*[[root]] (Aus)

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[ебане]] ''n'', [[секс]] ''m'' (1)
*Finnish: [[naida]], [[panna]], [[nussia]]; [[vittu]] ("voi vittu", oh fuck)
*Romanian: [[futa]]
*Swedish: [[knulla]]
*Portuguese: [[foder]]

===Exclamation===
#Term of discontentment, as in "oh fuck!","fuck this!"

===Derived expressions===
*[[fuck off]] (vulgar, slang) go away!
*[[fuck about]] mess about, waste time, play about
*[[fuck someone around]] mess someone around
*[[fuck someone off]] annoy someone greatly, piss someone off
*[[fuck someone over]] treat badly, defraud, take advantage of
*[[fuck someone up]] beat someone up, ruin someone's life or health or situation
*[[fuck up]] ruin, spoil
*[[fuck you!]] = damn you! etc.
*[[what the fuck]] = what (etc) the hell, what (etc) on earth.
*[[give a fuck]] care (at all)
*[[fuck an a (ayy)]]