==English==
=== Etymology ===
1437, from M.Fr. funérailles (pl.) "funeral rites," from M.L. funeralia "funeral rites," originally neut. pl. of L.L. funeralis "having to do with a funeral," from L. funus (gen. funeris) "funeral, death, corpse," origin unknown, perhaps ult. from PIE base *dheu- "to die." Singular and plural used interchangeably in Eng. until c.1700. The adj. funereal is first attested 1725, by influence of M.Fr. funerail, from L. funereus, from funus.

=== Adjective ===
'''funeral'''

# being related to a ceremony in honor of a deceased person

=== Translation ===
*[[Breton]]: [[kañv]] ''noun in apposition''
*Bulgarian: [[погребален]] ''m''
*Chinese characeter: [[葬]]
*Chinese (simplified): [[葬礼]] (zangli)
*Chinese (traditional): [[葬禮]]
*Danish: [[begravelses-]]
*French: [[funéraire]], [[obseques]] ''mpl''
*[[Interlingua]]: funeral
*Japanese: 葬式の (soshiki no)
*Korean: 장례의 (jangrye e)
*Latin: [[funeralis]]
*Polish: [[pogrzebowy]] ''m''
*Portuguese: funeral
*Spanish: funeral

=== Noun ===
'''funeral'''

# a ceremony to honour of a deceased person

=== Translation ===
*Arabic: [[جنازة]]
*[[Breton]]: [[obidoù]] ''pl''
*Bulgarian: [[погребение]] ''n''
*Chinese (simplified): [[葬礼]] (zangli)
*Chinese (traditional): [[葬禮]]
*Danish: [[begravelse]] ''c''
*Dutch: [[begrafenis]] ''c''
*French: [[funérailles]] ''pl''
*German: [[Beerdigung]] ''f'', [[Begräbnis]] ''n''
*[[Interlingua]]: funeral
*Italian: [[funerale]]
*Japanese: [[葬式]] (そうしき, soshiki), [[葬儀]] (そうぎ, sougi)
*Korean: [[장례]] (jangrye)
*Latin: ''nom.'' [[funus]], ''gen.'' [[funeris]]
*Norwegian: [[begravelse]] ''c''
*Polish: [[pogrzeb]] ''m''
*Portuguese: funeral ''m''
*Russian: [[похороны]]
*Spanish: funeral ''m'', [[entierro]] ''m''

=== Related terms ===
*[[funerary]]
*[[funereal]]

===Derived terms===
*[[funeral director]]
*[[funeral parlour]]

[[it:funeral]]
[[hu:Funeral]]
[[pl:Funeral]]

===External Link===
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Funeral Wikipedia article:Funeral]