Georeactor is the term coined by Dr. J. Marvin Herndon to describe his concept of a naturally occurring nuclear fission reactor at the center of the Earth, see "Feasibility of a nuclear fission reactor as the energy source for the geomagnetic field", J. M. Herndon, J. Geomag. Geoelectr. 45, 423-437 (1993). There is reason to believe that energy to drive the geomagnetic field arises from that central nuclear fission reactor. The agreement between georeactor helium isotope production and the helium isotopes observed in oceanic basalt is strong evidence for the existence of the georeactor, see "Nuclear georeactor origin of oceanic basalt 3He/4He, evidence, and implications", J. M. Herndon. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA.100, 3047-3050 (2003). Current research aimed at detecting georeactor-produced anti-neutrinos offers the future possibility of obtaining georeactor proof, see "Background for terrestrial antineutrino investigations: radionuclide distribution, georeactor fission Events, and boundary conditions on fission power production", J. M. Herndon and D. A. Edgerley, http://arXiv.org/hep-ph/0501216. Georeactor is the terrestrial-specific characterization of the more general planetocentric nuclear fission reactor concept, see "Planetary and protostellar nuclear fission: implications for planetary change, stellar ignition and dark matter", J. M. Herndon. Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond., A 455, 453-461 (1994). For example, the turbulence observed in the atmosphers of Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune is thought to be driven by planetocentric nuclear reactors. The full implications of planetocentric nuclear fission reactors is only beginning to be understood. For more information, see http://NuclearPlanet.com .

{{rfc}}