==English==

===Noun===
'''ginger'''

# Any plant of a genus (''[[Zingiber]]'', especially ''Zingiber officinale'') of tropical Asiatic and Polynesian [[herb]]s of a family (''[[Zingiberaceae]]'', the ginger family) with pungent aromatic rhizomes used as a condiment and as a stimulant and acarminative.
# The rhizome of this plant used as a [[spice]] either as it is or in dried powdered form.
# (colour) A reddish-brown colour/color.
# (''colloquial''; ''derogatory'') A person with reddish-brown hair.

<table><tr><td>ginger colour: &nbsp;</td>
<td bgcolor="#80461B" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>

====Translations====

'''plant'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Czech: [[zázvor]] ''m''
*French: [[gingembre]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[gember]] ''m''
*German: [[Ingwer]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[zenzero]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[生姜]] (しょうが, shouga)
*Slovene: [[ingver]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''spice'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Czech: [[zázvor]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[gember]] ''m''
*French: [[gingembre]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[zenzero]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[生姜]] (しょうが, shouga)
*Slovene: [[ingver]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''colour/color'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovene: [[rdečkasta (barva)]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[しょうが]][[色]] (shōgairo)
|}
|}

'''person with reddish-brown hair'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[rouquin]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  Note that the numbering is not necessarily correct.

*Chinese Characters: [[姜]], [[薑]] (jiāng); [[蘘]]
*Chinese: [[姜]], [[薑]] (jiāng)
*Slovak: [[ďumbier]] ''m'' (1), [[hrdzúň]] ''m'' (4)
*Spanish: [[jengibre]] ''m''
*Tok Pisin: [[kawawar]]

===Adjective===
'''ginger''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''more ginger''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''most  ginger''')

#(''used to describe hair'') Of a reddish-brown colour.
# flavoured with ginger.
#(''Cockney rhyming slang''; ''derogatory'') Queer (ie, homosexual) (''short for'' '''[[ginger beer]]''', ''rhyming with'' '''[[queer]]''').

===Translations===

'''reddish-brown'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[ros]], [[rosse]]
*French: [[roux]] ''m'', [[rousse]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[ショウガ]][[色]][[の]] (shōga iro no)
*Slovak: [[hrdzavý]] ''m'', [[hrdzavá]] ''f'', [[ryšavý]] ''m'', [[ryšavá]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''flavour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[ショウガ]][[味の]] (shōga aji no)
|}
|}

'''queer (homosexual)'''
''See [[queer]]'''

===See also===
*[[redhead]]
*[[w:Ginger|Wikipedia article on ginger]]
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Wiktionary list of colours]]

[[Category:English colors]]