A '''god complex''' is a term used to characterize individuals prone to stupid actions despite their being highly educated, worldly, or powerful.  It is increasingly evident that powerful, and generally very intelligent, people sometimes do incredibly stupid things.  Terms such as [[group think]], [[expert worship]], and god complex have been coined to explain various incarnations of this phenomenon. 

==Scholarly research==

There are few academic works on the subject.

In the book ''All Mighty: A Study of the God Complex in Western Man'', by Horst Richter (ISBN 0897930282), authoritarian compulsions are related to the rebellious stage of childhood development.  Richter examines how the arrested development of such compulsions leads to denial of suffering, self-doubt and death, and an expectation of servility for women and minorities. 


==Quotes==

"Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former."  (Attribution unverified) Albert Einstein

==External links==

* [http://www.daghettotymz.com/current/godcomplex/godcomplex.html DaGhettoTymz.com] - 'The God Complex: Microcozm of the Macrocozm', Jehvon Buckner
* [http://www.larouchepub.com/other/interviews/2005/3205_justin_frank.html LaRouchePub.com] - '"God Complex" Helps Bush Deal with Anxiety'  issue of ''Executive Intelligence Review'' Interview with Dr. Justin Frank (February 4, 2005)
* [http://www.mclemee.com/id97.html McLemee.com] - 'The Shrink with a God Complex' Ronald Hayman ''Newsday'', (April 22, 2001) 
* [http://news-service.stanford.edu/news/2003/september10/caligula-910.html News-Service.Stanford.edu] - 'Did Caligula have a God complex?  Stanford, Oxford archaeologists find evidence that depraved tyrant annexed sacred temple', John Sanford (September 10, 2003)