The phrase "'''''the greatest thing since sliced bread'''''" ("'''''best'''''" may be substituted for "'''''greatest'''''", and "'''''invention'''''" may be substituted for "'''''thing'''''") is a commonly used [[hyperbolic]] (and sometimes [[sarcastic]]) means of praising an [[invention]] or other society-advancing development. [[Sliced bread]] - meaning pre-sliced, packaged bread - has existed only since [[1928]], but it nevertheless appears to be something of an arbitrary selection as the benchmark against which later inventions should be judged. It has been said that "the phrase is the ultimate depiction of innovative achievement and American know-how" [http://www.kansascity.com/mld/kansascity/business/6405440.htm] - although it is commonly used in the [[United Kingdom]] as well.

The popular use of the phrase appears to derive from the fact that [[Wonder Bread]] - the first mass-marketer of sliced bread as a product - launched a [[1930s]] ad campaign touting the innovation. As one source reports, "Soon every new innovation of convenience was being touted as the 'greatest thing since sliced bread.'"[http://www.kansascity.com/mld/kansascity/business/6405440.htm]


{{stub}}

==External links==
*[[http://www.kansascity.com/mld/kansascity/business/6405440.htm History of sliced bread little known on 75th anniversary]
*[http://itotd.com/index.alt?ArticleID=414 Joe Kissel's Interesting Thing of the Day: The Invention of the Wheel - The best thing until sliced bread.]
*[http://www.laststory.com/Expressions%20and%20Sayings%20that%20Dont%20Make%20Sense.htm Expressions and Sayings that Don’t Make Sense] (noting that sliced [[cheese]] should be considered a greater invention, because cheese "is much harder to slice evenly than bread").

Some developments referred to as the best/greatest thing/invention since sliced bread:
*[http://homepage.univie.ac.at/horst.prillinger/blog/archives/2004/06/000623.html Wikipedia] Note: this is a sarcastic reference by an anti-Wikipedian.
*[http://www.themorningnews.org/archives/reviews/ipod_vs_sliced_bread.php The iPod (The Morning News:  iPod vs. Sliced Bread)] Note: this article concludes that sliced bread is still the greater invention.
*[http://www.eaa-knowledge.com/ojni/ni/dm/51/handheld_technology.htm Handheld technology]  (e.g., the [[PDA]])
*[http://www.dtweed.com/circuitcellar/caj00019.htm High-level languages for microcontrollers]
*[http://www.kantor.com/usatoday/thermal_depolymerization.shtml Thermal depolymerization] 
*[http://www.offkilter.org/may152002.html Sara Lee crustless bread]
*[http://www.math.tamu.edu/~harold.boas/courses/math696/Maple-sliced-bread.html Multi-variable integration] (which the author then uses to calculate the volume of the bread slices).
*[http://www.bayweekly.com/year01/issue9_4/burton9_4.html Liberty] (Note: clearly hyperbole, as liberty was invented ''before'' sliced bread).