==English==

==Pronunciation==
:(US) SAMPA:/grin/


==Definition==
'''green''' (''[[noun]]'')
#The [[color|colour]] of growing [[foliage]], as well as other [[plant]] [[cell]]s containing [[chlorophyll]].
#a primary additive [[color|colour]] for transmitted light. 
#the colour obtained by subtracting red and blue from white light using cyan and yellow filters.
<table><tr><td>bright green colour: &nbsp;</td>
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
:''See also'' Wikipedia: [[w:green|green]]

'''green''' (''[[adjective]]'')
#having a green colour
# Environmentally friendly.<br>
#:Ex. <i>Let's buy <b>green</b> copier paper for the office</i>
# Characterized by inexperience.
#:Ex. <i>John's kind of <b>green</b>, so take it easy on him this first week</i>
# Sickly-looking
#:Ex. <i>Sally looks pretty <b>green</b> -- is she going to hurl?</i>


===Translations===
* [[Afrikaans]]: [[groen]]
* [[Albanian]]: [[gjelbër]]
* [[Catalan]]: [[verd]] ''m'', [[verda]] ''f''
* [[Czech]]: [[zelený]]
* [[Danish]]: [[grøn]]
* [[Dutch]]: [[groen]], [[groentje]] (3), [[onervaren]] (3)
* [[Esperanto]]: [[verda]]
* [[Estonian]]: [[roheline]]
* [[Finnish]]: [[vihreä]]
* [[French]]: [[vert]], [[bleu]] (3)
* [[Frisian]]: [[grien]]
* [[German]]: [[grün]]
* [[Greek]]: [[πράσινος]]
* [[Hebrew]]: [[ירוק]]
* [[Hungarian]]: [[zöld]]
* [[Icelandic]]: [[grænn]]
* [[Indonesian]]: [[hijau]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[verde]]
* [[Irish]]: [[glas]], [[uaine]]
* [[Italian]]: [[verde]]
* [[Japanese]]: [[緑]] (みどり, midori)
* [[Latin]]: [[virditas]]
* [[Manchu]]: ([[niowanggiyan]])
* [[Norwegian]]: [[grønn]]
* [[Polish]]: [[zielony]]
* [[Portuguese]]: [[verde]]
* [[Romanian]]: [[verde]]
* [[Russian]]: [[зелёный]]
* [[Serbian]]: [[zelena]]
* [[Slovak]]: [[zelená]]
* [[Spanish]]: [[verde]]
* [[Swedish]]: [[grön]]
* [[Welsh]]: [[gwyrdd]]

===Related words===
:''See'' [[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]