==English==
===Etymology===
From [[w:Old English language|Old English]][[category:Old English derivations]] [[Gypcyan]], [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] [[gyptien]] (meaning [[Egyptian]], [[gypsy]]), from [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] [[Aegyptius]]. See [[Egyptian]]. 
===Noun===
'''gypsy''' ('''gypsies''')
# a member of the [[Roma]]. This term is considered pejorative by the Roma themselves.
#(Webster) One of a vagabond race, whose tribes, coming originally from India, entered Europe in 14th or 15th century, and are now scattered over Turkey, Russia, Hungary, Spain, England, etc., living by theft, fortune telling, horsejockeying, tinkering, etc. Cf. Bohemian, Romany. 
#:''Like a right gypsy, hath, at fast and loose, Beguiled me to the very heart of loss.'' [[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]][[Category:Shakespeare Quotes]]
#hence, any [[itinerant]] person or any person suspected of making a living from theft etc.

====Alternate spellings====
'''gipsy''' or  '''gypsey''' 

====Synonyms====
*[[Roma]]
*[[Sinti]]
*[[traveller]]

====Derived terms====
*[[gypsy moth]]

====Translations====
*Chinese: [[吉普賽人]], [[吉普赛人]]
*Dutch: [[zigeuner]] ''m'', [[zigeunerin]] ''f''
*French: [[bohémien]] ''m'', [[bohémienne]] ''f'', [[tsigane]] ''m, f''
*German: [[Zigeuner]] ''m''
*Greek: [[τσιγγάνος]] ''m''
*Hungarian: [[cigány]]
*Japanese: [[ジプシー]] (jipushii)
*Korean: [[집시]]
*Portuguese: [[cigano]] ''m''
*Russian: [[цыганин]] ''m'' (tsiganin)
*Spanish: [[gitano]] ''m'' gitana ''f''

===See also===
*[[w:Roma_%28people%29|Wikipedia article on the Roma]]

[[it:gypsy]]
<!-- From Webster

Gypsy (Page: 660)
Gyp"sy (?), n.; pl. Gypsies (#). [OE. Gypcyan, F. gyptien Egyptian, gypsy, L. Aegyptius. See Egyptian.] [Also spelled gipsy and gypsey.] 

1. One of a vagabond race, whose tribes, coming originally from India, entered Europe in 14th or 15th centry, and are now scattered over Turkey, Russia, Hungary, Spain, England, etc., living by theft, fortune telling, horsejockeying, tinkering, etc. Cf. Bohemian, Romany. 

Like a right gypsy, hath, at fast and loose, Beguiled me to the very heart of loss. Shak.
2. The language used by the gypsies. Shak. 

3. A dark-complexioned person. Shak. 

4. A cunning or crafty person [Collog.] Prior. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gypsy (Page: 660)
Gyp"sy a. Pertaining to, or suitable for, gypsies. Gypsy hat, a woman's or child's broad-brimmed hat, usually of straw or felt. -- Gypsy winch, a small winch, which may be operated by a crank, or by a ratchet and pawl through a lever working up and down. [661]



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gypsy (Page: 661)
Gyp"sy (?), v. i. To play the gypsy; to picnic in the woods. Mostly. Gyp"sy*ing, vb. n. 


-->