=={{en}}==
==Verb==
'''to hack'''

# To cough noisily.
#:''This cold is awful.  I can't stop hacking''.
# To chop or cut down in a rough manner.
#:''They hacked the brush down and made their way through the jungle''.
# To withstand or put up with a difficult situation.
#:''Can you hack it out here with no electricity or running water?''.
# To play [[hackeysack]].
<!-- This next is doubtful.  The following two defintions are closer to what's really going on # to accomplish a difficult programming task. 
#:''She can '''hack''' like no one else and make the program work as expected''. -->
# To work with on an intimately technical level.
#: ''I'm currently hacking distributed garbage collection.''
# To make a quick code change to patch a computer program.
#:''I hacked in a fix for this bug, but we'll still have to do a real fix later.''.
# To gain unauthorized access to a computer system (e.g. website) by manipulating code. (Widely called "[[crack]]")
<!-- see [[hack into]] #to gain illegal access to a computer network. (Actually called a "[[crack]]" in computer parlance). -->

===Related Terms===
*[[hack in]]
*[[hack into]]
*[[hack up]]
*[[hacker]]

===See Also===
*[[crack]]
*[[frob]]
*[[tweak]]

==== Translations ====
*Dutch: [[kuchen]] (1), [[hakken]] (2)
*Finnish: [[yskiä]] (1), [[köhiä]] (1), [[hakata#Finnish|hakata]] ([[alas]]/[[maa#Finnish|maahan]])(2), [[selvitä]] (3), [[pärjätä]] (3), [[koodata]] (5), [[pätsätä]] (6, ''slang'')
*[[Interlingua]]: [[hachar]] (2)
*Polish: [[hakować]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[cöpilön]] (2)

===Noun===
'''hack'''

# A dry cough.
# (''slang'') A taxicab.
# (''slang'') A taxicab driver.
# (''[[Spanglish]]''), an old tired horse.
# A talented writer-for-hire, paid to put others' thoughts into felicitous language.
#An untalented writer.  
#:''He's nothing but a two-bit hack.''
# An interesting technical achievement, particularly in [[computer programming]].
<!-- #an illegal attempt to gain access to a computer network. (Actually called a "[[crack]]" in [[computer]] parlance). --- Does anyone actually say this, or is it a presumed back-formation of hacker? -->
# (''computing'') An small [[code change]] meant to patch a problem as quickly as possible.

===Related Terms===
*[[marginal hacks]]

===See Also===
*[[kludge]]

==== Translations ====
*Dutch: [[kuch]] ''m'' (1), [[knol]] (5)
*Finnish: [[yskä]] (1), [[köhä]] (1), [[taksi]] (2), [[pirssi]] (2, ''colloquial''), [[taksikuski]] (3), [[koni#Finnish|koni]] (4)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[taxi]] (5)
*Spanish: [[taxi]] (2), [[jaca]] (4)
*[[Volapük]]: [[cöpilod]] (2)

===Adjective===
'''hack''', not comparable

# (''literature'') Having or requiring little talent.
#:''He's nothing but the typical hack writer.''
#:''I got by on hack work for years before I finally published my novel.''

[[it:hack]]