==English==
=== Noun ===
'''hacker''' ([[hackers]])

# Someone who [[hack]]s, or cuts with rough blows
# A golfer of indifferent ability.  May be used pejoratively.
<!-- # One who [[hacks]].  --- Taking this out because it doesn't really apply to coughing, chopping things down or coping with a situation. -->
# One who is intensely interested in learning and modifying the technical aspects of a system, particularly a computer and its software.
<!-- # Those that program and use computers and technology enthusiastically, almost obsessively. --- This is too heavily biased toward programming and mere use instead of studying and tweaking -->
# A computer programmer who is largely or completely self-taught. <!-- I think self-teaching is more hackish than lack of formal training.  I think this is worth including somehow, but keep in mind that the NHD and Wikipedia are both better media for convenying finer points.  From a wiktionary point of view, the litmus test is whether one might use the word this way without also meaning one of the other senses.  I'm not entirely convinced, but I'm not violently opposed -->
<!-- # Someone with the ability to read [[machine code]].
   I've never seen this as particularly hackish.  Lots of 80-column minds can grasph machine code just fine, and I don't believe "I can read machine code" would cause that much of a stir among exprienced hackers -->
<!-- This next is intersting -- it's where a lot of the trouble starts.  I've reworded it to bring the belief about freedom of information to the front -->
# One who feels that all knowledge and information should be free and may be willing to [[hack into]] systems to promote this view.
<!-- # An ubergeek. --- Not sure.  Hacking isn't really about recognition -->
# A [[cracker]]; one who breaks into computer systems with malicious or criminal intent.  <!-- Moving [[black hat hacker]] and [[script kiddie]] to see also -->

====Usage Note====
The sense meaning "one who is intensely interested ...", dating at least to the 1960's, is still current in the computing community.  However, popular usage, including news accounts and television programs, tends overwhelmingly toward the ''cracker'' sense.  Many in the hacker community (in the older sense) feel it is important to promote usage of the older sense, and find the ''cracker'' sense offensive, particularly since computer burglary and vandalism can be and often are done without any deep understanding or significant skill.  One should, however, use the term with care in casual conversation, as it is easily misconstrued.

====Related terms====
*[[black hat hacker]]
*[[hack]]
*[[hack into]]
*[[kernel hacker]]
*[[Unix hacker]]
*[[white hat hacker]]

====Translations====
*{{fi}}: [[hakkeri]] (2, 3, 4, 5), [[kräkkeri]] (5)
*{{fr}}: [[bidouilleur]] (3-6) 
*{{lv}}: [[hakeris]], [[urķis]]

===See also===
*[[cracker]]
*[[script kiddie]]
*[[w:hacker|Wikipedia article on ''hacker'']]
*[http://catb.org/~esr/jargon/index.html The Hacker's dictionary]
*[http://catb.org/~esr/jargon/html/H/hacker.html Hacker's dictionary definition of ''hacker'']