==English==
===Etymology===
Anglo Saxon ''[[healf]]'', ''half'', half; as a noun, half, side, part; akin to Old Saxon, Old Friesian, and Dutch ''half'', German ''[[halb]]'', Swedish half, Danish ''[[halv]]'', Icelandic ''[[h&#257;lfr]]'', Gothic [[𐌷𐌰𐌻𐌱𐍃]] (halbs). Compare [[halve]], [[behalf]]

===Adjective===
'''half'''
#Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view
#:'''Note:''' The adjective and noun are often united to form a compound.
#Consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half; approximately a half, whether more or less; partial; imperfect; as, a half dream; half knowledge.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Assumed from thence a half consent. - [[Tennyson]]
====Derived expressions====
*'''Half ape,''' ''(Zoölogy):'' a lemur
*'''Half back,''' ''(Football):'' See under 2d [[back]]
*'''Half bent:''' the first notch, for the [[sear point]] to enter, in the tumbler of a gunlock; the halfcock notch
*'''Half binding:''' a style of bookbinding in which only the back and corners are in leather
*'''Half boarder:''' one who boards in part; specifically, a scholar at a boarding school who takes dinner only
*'''Half-breadth plan,''' ''(Shipbuilding):'' a horizontal plan of the half a vessel, divided lengthwise, showing the lines
*'''Half cadence,''' ''(Music):'' a cadence on the dominant
*'''Half cap,''' ''(Obsolete):'' a slight salute with the cap. - Shakespeare
*A '''half cock:''' the position of the cock of a gun when retained by the first notch
*'''half cocked:''' or '''halfcocked:''' unprepared, lacking forethought; -- as in go off '''half cocked'''
*'''Half hitch:''' a sailor's knot in a rope; half of a clove hitch
*'''Half hose:''' short stockings; socks
*'''Half measure:''' an imperfect or weak line of action
*'''Half note,''' ''(Music):'' a minim, one half of a semibreve
*'''Half page''' half of a single page, of a book.
*'''Half pay:''' half of the wages or salary; reduced pay; as, an officer on '''half pay'''
*'''Half price:''' half the ordinary price; or a price much reduced
*'''Half round'''
**''(Architecture):'' A molding of semicircular section
**''(Mechanical):'' Having one side flat and the other rounded; -- said of a file
*'''Half shift,''' ''(Music);'' a position of the hand, between the open position and the first shift, in playing on the violin and kindred instruments. See [[shift]]
*'''Half step,''' ''(Music):'' a semitone; the smallest difference of pitch or interval, used in music
*'''Half tide:''' the time or state of the tide equally distant from ebb and flood
*'''Half time:''' half the ordinary time for work or attendance; as, the half-time system
*'''Half tint,''' ''(Fine Arts):'' a middle or intermediate tint, as in drawing or painting. See [[demitint]]
*'''Half truth:''' a statement only partially true, or which gives only a part of the truth. - [[Mrs. Browning]]
*'''Half year,''' the space of six months; one term of a school when there are two terms in a year.
===Adverb===
'''half'''
#In an equal part or degree; in some pa appromating a half; partially; imperfectly; as, '''half'''-colored, '''half''' done, '''half'''-hearted, '''half''' persuaded, '''half''' conscious.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''Half''' loth and '''half''' consenting. - [[Dryden]]
#:*Their children spoke '''half''' in the speech of Ashdod. - ''Nehemiah 13:24''
===Noun===
Plural: '''halves'''
#''(Obsolete):'' Part; side; behalf - [[Wyclif]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The four '''halves''' of the house - [[Chaucer]]
#One of two equal parts into which anything may be divided, or considered as divided; -- sometimes followed by of; as, a '''half''' of an apple.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Not '''half''' his riches known, and yet despised. - [[Milton]]
#:*A friendship so complete Portioned in '''halves''' between us - [[Tennyson]]
====Derived expressions====
*'''Better half'''. See under [[better]]
*'''In half''', in two; ''(Colloquial):'' an expression sometimes used improperly instead of in or into halves; as, to cut in half. - [[Dickens]]
*''(Obsolete):'' '''In,''' or '''on, one's half:''' in one's behalf; on one's part
*'''To cry halves,''' to claim an equal share with another
*'''To go halves,''' to share equally between two.
===Verb===
'''to half'''
#''(transitive)'' (''obsolete''): to [[halve]]. - [[Sir H. Wotton]]

====Translations to be checked====
*[[Bulgarian]]: [[половина]]
*[[Chinese]]: [[半]] (bàn)
*[[Japanese]]: [[半分]] (はんぶん, hanbun)
*[[Romanian]]: [[jumătate]]
*[[Sasxsek]]: tufim


[[Category:English irregular plurals]]

[[fr:half]]
[[it:half]]
[[nl:half]]
[[ru:Half]]