===Etymology===
''hand'' + ''-some''. It at first meant, dexterous; compare Dutch ''handzaam'' dexterous, ready, limber, manageable, and English ''handy''.  
===Adjective===

'''handsome''' (Comparative: [[handsomer]], Superlative: [[handsomest]])

#''(Obsolete):'' Dexterous; skillful; handy; ready; convenient; -- applied to things as persons. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That they [engines of war] be both easy to be carried and ‘‘‘handsome’‘‘ to be moved and turned about. - [[Robynson (Utopia)]]
#:*For a thief it is so '''handsome''' as it may seem it was first invented for him. - [[Spenser]]
#Agreeable to the eye or to correct taste; having a pleasing appearance or expression; attractive; having symmetry and dignity; [[comely]]; -- expressing more than [[pretty]], and less than [[beautiful]]; 
#:'''Examples:''' a '''handsome''' man or woman; a '''handsome''' garment, house, tree, horse; [[MW10]] treats it as synonymous with beautiful in this sense. 
#:'''Translations'''
#::[[Dutch]]: [[knap]]
#::[[Finnish]]: [[komea]], [[kaunis]]
#::[[French]]: [[beau]]
#::[[German]]: [[hübsch]], [[stattlich]]
#::[[Interlingua]]: [[bel]], [[belle]]
#::[[Italian]]: [[bello]]
#::[[Norwegian]]: [[pen]]
#::[[Portuguese]]: [[bonito]]
#::[[Spanish]]: [[bello]], [[bonito]], [[hermoso]]
#Suitable or fit in action; marked with propriety and ease; graceful; becoming; appropriate
#:'''Examples:'''  a '''handsome''' style, etc.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Easiness and '''handsome''' address in writing. - [[Felton]]
#Evincing a becoming generosity or nobleness of character; liberal; generous.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''Handsome''' is as '''handsome''' does. - [[Old Proverb]]
#Ample; moderately large.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He . . . accumulated a '''handsome''' sum of money. - [[V. Knox]]
#:'''Derived expressions'''
#:*''(Colloquial):'' '''To do the handsome thing''', to act liberally. 
#:'''Synonyms'''
#:*[[Handsome]], [[Pretty]].
#:*'''Pretty''' applies to things comparatively small, which please by their delicacy and grace; as, a '''pretty''' girl, a '''pretty''' flower, a '''pretty''' cottage.
#:*'''Handsome''' rises higher, and is applied to objects on a larger scale. We admire what is '''handsome''', we are pleased with what is '''pretty'''. The word is connected with [[hand]], and has thus acquired the idea of training, cultivation, symmetry, and proportion, which enters so largely into our conception of '''handsome'''. Thus Drayton makes mention of '''handsome''' players, meaning those, who are well trained; and hence we speak of a man's having a '''handsome''' address, which is the result of culture; of a '''handsome''' horse or dog, which implies well proportioned limbs; of a '''handsome''' face, to which, among other qualities, the idea of proportion and a graceful contour are essential; of a '''handsome''' tree, and a '''handsome''' house or villa. So, from this idea of proportion or suitableness, we have, with a different application, the expressions, a '''handsome''' fortune, a '''handsome''' offer.

===Transitive verb===

'''to handsome'''

#''(Obsolete):''  To render handsome. - [[Donne]]