==English==
===Etymology===
from [[happy]]
===Noun===
'''happiness'''
#[[joy]], the [[emotion]] of being [[happy]]
#Good luck; good fortune; prosperity.
#:All '''happiness''' bechance to thee in Milan! - [[w:William Shakespeare]], ''[[Wikisource:The Two Gentlemen of Verona]]'', I-i
#An agreeable feeling or condition of the soul arising from good fortune or propitious happening of any kind; the possession of those circumstances or that state of being which is attended [[enjoyment]]; the state of being happy; [[contentment]]; [[joyful]] [[satisfaction]]; [[felicity]]; [[blessedness]]
#Fortuitous elegance; unstudied grace; -- used especially of language.
#: Some beauties yet no precepts can declare, For there's a '''happiness''', as well as care. - [[w:Alexander Pope]].

====Synonyms====
*'''Happiness''', [[felicity]], [[blessedness]], [[bliss]]. 
*'''Happiness''' is [[generic]], and is applied to almost every kind of enjoyment except that of the animal appetites.
*'''Felicity''' is a more formal word, and is used more sparingly in the same general sense, but with elevated associations
*'''Blessedness''' is applied to the most refined enjoyment arising from the purest social, benevolent, and religious affections
*'''Bliss''' denotes still more exalted delight, and is applied more appropriately to the joy anticipated in heaven.
*:O '''happiness!''' our being's end and aim! - [[w:Alexander Pope]]
*:Others in virtue place '''felicity''', But virtue joined with riches and long life; In corporal pleasures he, and careless ease. - [[w:John Milton]]
*:His overthrow heaped '''happiness''' upon him; For then, and not till then, he felt himself, And found the blessedness of being little. - [[w:William Shakespeare]], ''[[Wikisource:The Life of King Henry VIII]], IV-ii

====Translations====
*Chinese [[kuaile]]
*Dutch: [[geluk]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[ilo]], [[onni]]
*French: [[bonheur]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[幸福]], [[愉快]], [[幸運]]
*Kannada: sunTHOsha
*Spanish: [[felicidad]]
*Swedish: [[glädje]], [[lycka]]

[[Category:Emotions]]

[[it:happiness]]

===References===
Webster 1913