{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
Variant of [[hallo]]
====Note====
This variant of [[hallo]] is sometimes falsely credited to [[w:Thomas Edison|Thomas Edison]], or to one of his employees, as a coinage (or as a variant of [[w:Hungarian language|Hungarian]] [[hallom]]) for telephone use.  However Edison in fact favoured "[[ahoy]]!" and '''hello''' pre-dates the invention of the telephone by over 300 years.

===Pronunciation===
*hĕ-lō', /hεˈləʊ/, /hE"l@U/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-əʊ|Rhymes: -əʊ]]
*hə-lō', /həˈləʊ/, /h@"l@U/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-əʊ|Rhymes: -əʊ]]

===Interjection===
[[Category:English interjections]]
'''hello'''
# A greeting said when meeting someone or acknowledging someone's arrival or presence.
#: ''Hello, how are you today?''
# A greeting used when answering the [[telephone]].
#: ''Hello?''
# A call for responses if it is not clear if anyone is present or if a telephone conversation may have been disconnected.
#: ''Hello?  Is anyone there?''
# (''colloquial'') Used sarcastically to imply that the person addressed or referred to has done something the speaker or writer considers to be foolish.
#: ''You just tried to start your car with your cell phone.  Hello?''
# (''somewhat dated'') An expression of puzzlement.
#: ''Hello?  What's going on here.''
# (''with specific pronunciation'') Used (usu. by male) to signify the arrival of an attractive female.
#: ''Hello.'' (length drawn out - 'Heeellloooo').

====Usage notes====
#The greeting ''hello'' is among the most generic and neutral in use.  It may be heard in nearly all social situations and in nearly all walks of life, and is unlikely to cause offense.

====Synonyms====
{{rfc}}
*(''greeting''): [[dude]]! (''informal''), [[g'day]] (''Australian, informal''), [[hallo]], [[hey]] (''US, informal''), [[hi]] (''especially US, informal''), [[howdy]] (''US, informal''), [[hullo]], [[wassup]]? (''slang''), [[what's up]]? (''informal''), [[yo]]! (''slang'')

====See also====
*[[greeting]]
*[[:Category:Greetings]]

====Translations====

'''greeting''''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bosnian: [[Zdravo]], [[Ćao]]
*Czech: [[ahoj]], [[nazdar]]
*French: [[salut]] (''informal''), [[bonjour]]
*Indonesian: [[hai]] 
*Italian: [[ciao]], [[salve#Italian|salve]], [[buongiorno]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Latin: [[salve]], [[ave]]
*Portuguese: [[oi]]
*Serbian: [[Здраво]], [[Zdravo]]; [[Ћао]], [[Ćao]]
*Spanish: [[hola]]
*Swahili: [[jambo]]
*Swedish: [[hallå]], [[hej]], [[god dag]] (''formal'')
*Ukrainian: [[привіт]]
|}
|}

'''when answering the telephone'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bosnian: [[Halo]], [[Molim]]
*Czech: [[haló]]
*French: [[allô]]
*Indonesian: [[halo]]
*Italian: [[pronto#Italian|pronto]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[alô]]
*Serbian: [[Хало]], [[Halo]]; [[Молим]], [[Molim]]
*Swedish: [[hallå]], [[hej]], [[god dag]] (''formal'')
*Ukrainian: [[алло]]
|}
|}

'''is anyone there?'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bosnian: [[Halo?]]
*Czech: [[haló]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Serbian: [[Хало?]], [[Halo?]]
*Swedish: [[hallå]]
|}
|}

'''sarcastic: that was foolish'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Swedish: [[men hallå]]
|}
|}

'''expression of puzzlement'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and separated into a table for each sense, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Arabic: [[مرحبا]]
*Armenian: [[Բարեվ]],[[Ողջույն]] (1), [[Ալլո]](2)
*Albanian: [[tungjatjeta]]
*Basque: [[kaixo]]
*Bulgarian: [[здравей]], [[здравейте]] (1), [[ало]] (2)
*Catalan: [[hola]] (1), [[digui]] (2)
*Chamorro: Hafa Dai
*Chinese(Putonghua): [[你好]] (nǐhǎo), [[您好]] (nínhǎo), [[喂]] (wèi), [[幸会]] (xìnghùi)
*Croatian: [[halo]], [[bok]]
*Czech: [[ahoj]]
*Danish: [[hallo]], [[goddag]], [[dav]]
*Dutch: [[hallo]]
*Esperanto: [[saluton]]
*Estonian: [[tere]]
*[[Fijian]]: [[bula]] ([[:fj:bula|Vosa Vaka Viti]])
*Filipino: [[helo]], [[hoy]], [[kumustá]]
*Finnish: [[hei]], [[terve]] (1), [[haloo]] (2)
*Frisian: [[hallo]], [[hoi]]
*Galician: [[hola]]
*German: [[Hallo]]
*Greek: [[γειά]]
*Hawaiian: [[aloha]]
*Hebrew: [[שלום]] (shalom)
*Hungarian: [[szia]]
*Icelandic: [[halló]], [[kalla]], [[heilsa]]
*Interlingua: [[salute]] (1); [[hallo]] (1,2)
*Jèrriais: [[buonjour]]
*Japanese: [[こんにちは]] (konnichiwa) (1, daylight), [[こんばんは]] (konbanwa) (1, after dark), [[もしもし]] (moshi-moshi) (2)
*Korean: [[안녕하세요]] [安寧-] (annyeonghaseyo) (1), [[여보세요]] (yeoboseyo) (2)
*Lao: Sabai di
*Maori: [[kia ora]]
*Marshallese: yokwe<!-- not wikified due to incertainty of orthography -->
*Nahuatl: [[niltze]]
*Nepali: namaskar
*Norwegian: [[hei]]
*Persian: [[سلام]]
*Polish: [[cześć]]
*Romanian: [[bună ziua]] (1), [[salut]] (1), [[alo]] (2) 
*Russian: [[здравствуйте]], [[привет]]! (1), [[алло]] (2)
*Slovak: [[ahoj]] (1), [[servus]] (1), [[haló]] (2)
*Slovenian: [[zdravo]]
*Spanish: [[diga]] (2), [[aló]] (2), [[bueno]] (2)
*Tagalog: [[helo]], [[hoy]]
*Tamil: [[வணக்கம்]] (vanakkam)
*Tatar: [[isänme]](sez)!, [[sälâm]]! (1), [[allo]], [[hallow]] (2)
*Thai: (sawaad-dii)
*Turkish: [[merhaba]] (1), [[alo]] (2), [[efendim]] (2)
*Tyvan: [[экии]] (ekii)
*Urdu: [[السلام علیکم]] ,[[آداب]]
*Vietnamese:
*#[[chào]] ([[ông]], [[bà#Vietnamese|bà]], [[cô#Vietnamese|cô]], [[anh#Vietnamese|anh]], [[chị]], [[em#Vietnamese|em]], [[quí vị]] &ndash; depending on subject of gratitude)<!--what gratitude?-->
*#[[á-lô]]!
*Volapük: [[glidis]]

[[Category:Greetings]]
[[Category:Phrasebook]]
[[it:hello]]
[[ja:hello]]