===Pronunction===

<!--to be added-->

===Etymology===
Combination of elements suggesting largeness or length, deliberately forming a word likely to induce the fear it denotes: ''hippopotomonstro-'' (irregular blend [influenced by connective ''-o-'', from French, from Latin, from Greek—connective vowel of most nouns and adjectives in combination] of [[hippopotamus]] and ''monstro-'', from Latin ''monstr-'', ''monstrum'', '''monster''') + ''sesquippedalio-'' (incorrectly formed from [[sesquipedalian]] or Latin ''sesquipedalia'', '''anatomical things one and a half feet long''') + ''[[-phobia]]'', from [[phobia]]

===Noun===

#The fear of long words.

===Usage===

*"Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia is longer than [[antidisestablishmentarianism]]"

===Quotations===

*'''2002''' - However, we assume that despite the best endeavours of science, some phobias will always remain. These include [[paraskavedekatriaphobia]], or fear of Friday the 13th. And '''hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia''', which is fear of long words.  - anon, ''The Scotsman'' (April 9, 2002) page 13.
*'''2002''' - Those who find this column troubling are suffering from '''hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia''' - the fear of long words. Or, more likely, [[rupophobia]] - a fear of rubbish. - Chris Lloyd in ''The Northern Echo'' (December 14, 2002) page 10

___

In the book ''Useless Knowledge'', this enormous word was misinterpreted by the authors as two words, causing them to list the fear of long words as the following:

:hippopotomonstroses
:and quippedaliophobia

—further distortions of an already very incorrectly formed word (see [[Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia#Etymology|Etymology]] above)!

====Synonyms====

*[[sesquipedalophobia]]

<!--is this useful?
====Other====

This word does not actually anything to do with monstrous hippopotami. Yes it does.
-->