==English==
===Adjective===
'''homosexual'''
# Of, relating to, or having a sexual orientation to persons of the same sex.

===Noun===
'''homosexual'''
# A person who, or, less commonly, an animal that, is homosexual; that is, attracted to others of the same sex.

====Usage note====
*Homosexual women are also known as [[lesbian]]s, a term preferred by many of them.  As ''homosexual'' applies to people of either sex, the expression ''homosexuals and lesbians'' is a [[pleonasm]] and is best replaced by ''homosexuals'' or ''lesbians'' alone as appropriate.

====Synonyms====
*[[gay]]
*[[lesbian]] (''used only of women'')

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[хомосексуалист]] ''m'', [[гей]] ''m'' <!--, [[педал]] ''m'' (highly offensive) this is not an idiomatic translation - belongs under "queer" and the like -->
*[[Chinese]]: [[同性恋]] (tóng xìng liàn)
*Dutch: [[homoseksueel]] ''m'', [[homo]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[samseksemo]]
*Finnish: [[homoseksuaali]], [[homoseksualisti]]
*French: [[homosexuel]] ''m'', [[homosexuelle]] ''f''
*German: [[Homosexueller]] ''m'', [[Homosexuelle]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[homoszexuális]]
*Italian: [[omosessuale]]
*Latin: [[homosexualis]]
*Polish: [[homoseksualista]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[homossexual]]
*Spanish: [[homosexual]]
*Swedish: [[homosexuell]] ''c'', [[homo]] ''c''
*Arabic: [[شاذ]]

===Adjective===
'''homosexual'''
# Sexually attracted only to other members of the same sex.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[хомосексуален]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[homoseksueel]]
*Esperanto: [[samseksema]]
*Finnish: [[homoseksuaalinen]]
*French: [[homosexuel]] ''m'', [[homosexuelle]] ''f''
*German: [[homosexuell]]
*Hungarian: [[homoszexuális]]
*Italian: [[omosessuale]] ''m'' & ''f''
*Latin: [[homosexualis]]
*Polish: [[homoseksualny]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[homossexual]]
*Swedish: [[homosexuell]]

====Synonyms====
*[[gay]]
*[[lesbian]] (''used only of women'')

====Usage notes====
*Many homosexual people prefer to be referred to by the adjective (and noun) [[gay]].
*Many female homosexuals prefer to be referred to as [[lesbian]].
*Many people now avoid using homosexual because of the emphasis this term places on sexuality. Indeed, the words gay and lesbian, which stress cultural and social matters over sex, are frequently better choices. Homosexual is most objectionable when used as a noun; here gay man and gay woman or lesbian and their plural forms are called for. It is generally unobjectionable when used adjectivally, as in a homosexual relationship, although gay, lesbian, or same-sex are also available for adjectival use.
----

==Romanian==
[[Homosexual]] (same as in english, but different pronunciation).
<!--is this the adjective or the noun?  Please format correctly.-->

[[pl:Homosexual]]
[[pt:Homosexual]]