==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: hôrn
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /hɔː(r)n/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /hO:(r)n/

===Noun===
'''horn''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]; plural'' [[horns]])

#(''countable'') A hard growth of [[keratin]] that protrudes from the top of the [[head]] of certain [[animal]]s.<!--encyclopedic: A horn is distinct from an [[antler]] in that horns are composed of keratin while antlers are made of bone, and horns are generally not shed and regrown while antlers are.-->
#(''uncountable'') The hard substance from which animals' horns are made.
#(''countable'') Any of several [[musical]] [[wind instrument]]s.
#:When used alone, the word "horn" means either "[[hunting horn]]" or "[[French horn]]", depending on context.  Other instruments are identified by specific adjectives such as "[[English horn]]" or "[[basset horn]]".
#(''countable'') A loud [[alarm]], especially one on a motor vehicle.
#(''countable'') A [[conical]] device used to direct [[wave]]s.
#:''antenna horn''
#:''loudspeaker horn''.
#(''informal, countable'') Generally, any [[brass]] wind instrument.
#(''slang, countable; from the horn-shaped earpieces of old communication systems that used air tubes'') A [[telephone]].
#('''the horn''') (''uncountable; coarse slang'') An [[erection]] of the penis.

====Synonyms====
*(''growth on the heads of certain animals''):
*(''hard substance from which horns are made''):
*(''any of several musical wind instruments''):
*(''loud alarm, especially on a motor vehicle''): [[hooter]], [[klaxon]]
*(''conical device used to direct waves''): [[funnel]]
*(''informal: generally, any brass wind instrument''):
*(''slang: telephone''): [[blower]] (''UK''), [[dog and bone]] (''Cockney rhyming slang'')
*(''coarse slang: erection''): [[boner]] (''US''), [[hard-on]], [[stiffy]]

====Translations====

'''growth on the heads of certain animals'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[corne]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Swedish: [[horn#Swedish|horn]] ''n''
|}
|} 

'''hard substance from which horns are made'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[corne]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Swedish: [[horn#Swedish|horn]] ''n''
|}
|} 

'''any of several musical wind instruments'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[cor#French|cor]] ''m''
*German: [[Waldhorn]] ''n'' (''French horn''), [[Jagdhorn]] ''n'' (''hunting horn''), 
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Swedish: [[horn#Swedish|horn]] ''n''
|}
|} 

'''loud alarm, especially on a motor vehicle'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[klaxon]] ''m''
*German: [[Hupe]] ''f''
*Italian: [[clacson]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Swedish: [[tuta]] ''c''
|}
|} 

'''conical device used to direct waves'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}
 
'''informal: generally, any brass wind instrument'''
<!--NOTE: add INFORMAL terms to this table, where these exist-->
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}
 
'''slang: telephone'''
<!--NOTE: add SLANG terms to this table, where these exist-->
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}
 
'''coarse slang: erection'''
<!--NOTE: add SLANG terms to this table, where these exist-->
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}
 
=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into
the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Arabic: [[قرن]]
*Bulgarian: [[рог]] ''m'' (1), [[рогово вещество]] ''n'' (2), [[духов]] [[музикален]] [[инструмент]] ''m'' (3), <!-- I'm not sure about this one: [[рупор]] ''m'' (6), -->[[телефон]] ''m'' (8), [[ерекция]] ''f'' (9)
*Catalan: [[banya]] ''f'' (1,2), English horn: [[corn anglès]] ''m'' [[corn]] ''m'' (3), [[botzina]] ''f'' (4), [[clàxon]] ''m'' (4)
*Czech: [[roh]]  ''m'' (1, 3), [[rohovina]]  ''f'' (2)
*Finnish: [[sarvi]] (1, 2); [[torvi]] (3)
*German: Horn ''n'' (1, 2, 3, 5, 6), [[Trichter]] ''m'' (5), [[Telefon]] ''n'' (7)
*Indonesian: [[tanduk]] (1), [[zat tanduk]] (2), [[tanjidor]] (3), [[klakson]] (4)
*Latin: [[cornu]] ''n''
*Polish: [[róg]] ''m'' (1-3), [[klakson]] ''m'' (4), [[tuba]] ''f'' (5)
*Portuguese: [[chifre]] ''m'', [[corno]] ''m''
*[[Romanica]]: [[corno]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[rog]] ''m'' (1, 3), [[lovski rog]] ''m'' (hunting horn), [[roževina]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[cuerno]] ''m'' (1,2,3), [[bocina]] ''f'' (4), [[claxon]] ''m'' (4)

===Transitive verb===
to '''horn'''<!--or "horn in on"?-->
# to impose oneself on another's conversation or activity without invitation, as in "He horned in on the group discussion."

===Derived terms===
*[[French horn]]
*[[have the horn]]
*[[horned]]
*[[horn of plenty]]
*[[horny]]
*[[shoehorn]]

----
==German==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /hɔrn/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /hOrn/

===Noun===
'''Horn''' ''n'' (''plural'' [[Hörner]])

# a horn (musical instrument).
# a [[cornet]].
# (''Anatomy'') the cranial parietal bones.

===Noun===
'''Horn''' ''n'' (''plural'' [[Horne]])

# horn (material from animals).

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''Horn''' (pl. '''horn''', def. sing. [[hornet]], def. pl. [[hornen]])

# the musical instrument ''horn''
# (anatomy) a hard growth on certain animals heads
# the material horn

[[it:horn]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]