==English==

===Etymology===
From Middle English '''h(o)us''' < Old English '''[[hus|hūs]]''' (dwelling, shelter, house) < Proto-Germanic '''[[*khusan]]''', of unknown origin.

===Noun===
'''house''' (plural: [[house]]s)

====Pronunciation====
*hous, /haʊs/, /haUs/

#An abode of a human being, a place that a human built to live in.
#The archetypal structure of a human abode.
#a style or genre of [[music]].
#a complete set of numbers in bingo (in the UK).
#the usual place to find an animal or an object (the latter informally) (''the photo was put in its little house'').
#an auditorium for a theatre, or the theatre itself.
#a debating chamber for government politicians.
#an establishment—whether actual (as a pub) or virtual (as a website).
#the workings of a clock or similar.
#A dynasty, a familiar descendance, for example, a Royal House.
#''(astrology):'' One of the twelve divisions of an astrological chart.
#an early or alternative name for the game [[bingo]]
[[Category:Astrology]] [[Category:History]]
====Related terms====
*[[house music]]
*[[house wine]]
*[[full house]]
*[[Royal house]]
*[[housy-housy]]
*[[acid house]]
*[[house warming]]

====Translations====

'''abode''' (''noun'')
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Afrikaans: [[huis]]
*Arabic: [[بيت|بَيْتٌ]] (beyt) ''m'', [[بيوت|بُيُوتٌ]] (buyút) ''pl''
*[[Basque]]: [[etxe]]
*[[Blackfoot]]: [[naapiooyis]]
*[[Breton]]: [[ti]] ''m''
*Bulgarian: [[къща]] (kəšta) ''f''
*[[Catalan]]: [[casa]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[房屋]] (fángwū)
*[[Chuvash]]: {{Unicode|[[ҫурт]] / [[ҫурт|çурт]] (çurt) ''sg'', [[ҫурт|ҫуртсем]] / [[ҫурт|çуртсем]] (çurtsem) ''pl''}}
*[[Cree]]: [[wikowin]]
*Croatian: [[kuća]] ''f''
*Czech: [[dům]] ''m''
*Danish: [[hus]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[huis]] ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[domo]]
*Estonian: [[maja]]
*[[Faroese]]: [[hús]]
*Farsi: [[خانه|خانِه]] (xāne)
*[[Fijian]]: [[vale]]
*Finnish: [[talo]]
*French: [[maison]] ''f''
*[[Frisian]]: [[hûs]] ''n''
*[[Galician]]: [[casa]] ''f''
*German: [[Haus]] ''n'', [[Häuser]] ''pl''
*Greek (Ancient): [[οἶκος]] (oíkos) ''m'', [[οἰκία]] (oikía) ''f''
*Greek (Modern): [[σπίτι]] (spíti) ''n''
*Hawaiian: [[hale]]
*Hebrew: [[בית]] (báyit) ''m'', [[בתים]] (batím) ''pl''
*Hungarian: [[ház]]
*[[Ido]]: [[domo]]
*Indonesian: [[rumah]]
*Italian: [[casa#Italian|casa]] ''f'', [[casa#Italian|case]] ''pl''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[家]] ([[いえ]], ié), [[建物]] ([[たてもの]], tatémono)
*Kashubian: [[dóm]]
*Korean: [[집]] (jip)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[xanî]]
*[[Lakota]]: [[tipi]]
*Latin: [[domus]] ''f'', [[domus]] ''pl''
*[[Low Saxon]]: [[Huus]] ''n''
*[[Luganda]]: [[nyumba]]
*[[Luiseño]]: [[kíiča]]
*Malay: [[rumah]]
*Maltese: [[bejt]]
*Norwegian: [[hus]] ''n''
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[waakaa'igan]], [[waakaa'iganan]] ''pl''
*Polish: [[dom]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[casa]] ''f''
*[[Quechua]]: [[wasi]] ''sg'', [[wasikuna]] ''pl''
*Romanian: [[casă]] ''f''
*Russian: [[дом]] (dom) ''m'', [[дом|дома]] (domá) ''pl''
*Serbian: [[кућа]] (kuča) ''f''
*Slovak: [[dom]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[hiša]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[casa]] ''f''
*Swahili: [[nyumba]] ''sg/pl (noun 9/10)''
*Swedish: [[hus]] ''n'', [[byggnad]] ''c''
*[[Tagalog]]: [[bahay]]
*Thai: [[บ้าน]] (bààn)
*Turkish: [[ev]] ''sg'', [[evler]] ''pl''
*Ukrainian: [[дім]] (dim) ''m''
*[[Urdu]]: [[ghar]]
*Welsh: [[annedd]] ''m/f''
*Yiddish: [[hoyz]]
*[[Yup'ik]]: [[ne]], [[ena]] ''([[absolutive case|absolutive]])''
|}
|}

====Translations====

'''archetypal structure of a human abode''' (''noun'')
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[talo]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[hus]] ''n'', [[byggnad]] ''c''
|}
|}

====Translations====

'''a genre of music''' (''noun'')
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: house
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[house#Swedish|house]] ''c''
|}
|}

====Translations====

'''an establishment''' (''noun'')
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[hus]] ''n''
|}
|}

===Verb===
'''to house''' ([[houses]], [[housed]], [[housing]])

====Pronunciation====
*houz, /haʊz/, /haUz/
*:'''Homophones''': [[hows]]

#to [[keep]] within a structure or container. (''the car is housed in the garage'')
#to admit to residence; to [[harbor]]
#{{cattag|astronomy}}: To dwell within one of the twelve astrological [[houses]].
#to contain or cover mechanical parts

====Translations====
*French: [[garer]], [[loger]] (1); [[héberger]], [[abriter]], [[loger]] (2)
*German: [[unterbringen]], [[beherbergen]]
*Portuguese: [[armazenar]] (1); [[alojar]], [[hospedar]] (2)
*Russian: [[поселять]] / [[поселить]] (poselját'/poselít'), [[помещать]] / [[поместить]] (pomeščát'/pomestít'), [[приютить]] (prijutít') (2)
*Spanish: [[almacenar]] (1); [[alojar]], [[hospedar]], [[albergar]] (2); [[encajar]], [[envolver]] (4)

===External links===
{{Wikipedia}}
*[[w:House (astrology)|Wikipedia article on astrological houses]]
*[http://free-horoscopes.typepad.com Guide to free horoscopes] with selected sites, lessons for beginners and horoscope freeware.
----

==Czech==
===Noun===
'''house''' (genitive: housete), neuter

====Pronunciation====
SAMPA: /h\o_use/

# a baby goose, a [[gosling]]

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''house''' ''c''

#house, a style or genre of [[music]]

====Synonyme====
*[[housemusik]], [[house-musik]]

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[it:house]]
[[hu:house]]
[[ro:House]]
[[ru:House]]
[[fi:House]]
[[sv:house]]