'''hu,'''  a clipping from  "human" (like "flu" from "influenza") - a 3rd person 
gender-neutral pronoun.  It is pronounced [hju:] like "hu" in "human." Its 
brevity and morphological structure (one open syllable: a consonant + a 
vowel) make it similar t o other 3rd person pronouns -- a typical, easily 
recognizable member of this class: '''he - she - hu.'''

The derivative forms of "hu": reflexive "huself," [ [hju:self], possessive "hus"
[hju:z], and objective "hu" [hju:].

Thus the five forms of the 3rd person pronouns make up the table:

<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="6">
<tr><td>&nbsp;</th><th>Nom.<th>Gen. (adj)</th><th>posses</th><th>Acc.<th>refl</tr>
<tr><td>male<td align="center">he<td align="center">his<td align="center">his<td align="center">him<td align="center">hiself</tr>
<tr><td>female<td align="center">she<td align="center">her<td align="center">hers<td align="center">her<td align="center">herself</tr>
<tr><td>neutral<td align="center">hu<td align="center">hus<td align="center">hus<td align="center">hus<td align="center">huself</tr>
</table>

Examples:
:An employee may choose to cover only huself and hus child or any number of children.
:It's the vice-president's job to support the president and take hus place when hu is away.
:A hero is one who places huself at risk for another.
:Hu that has ears to hear, let hu hear.
:It should be the chief aim of a university professor to exhibit huself in hus own true character - that is, as an ignorant human thinking, actively utilising hus small share of knowledge.
:An introvert can easily become an extrovert when it is advantageous for hu to do so.

There are several advantages of "hu" over other contenders for the
vacancy of a gender-neutral 3rd person pronoun:

#  "Hu" is fully motivated, semantically and etymologically
justified, as a shortened form of "HUman."  Whenever the pronoun is
used, you have the idea  of the noun behind it making it memorable,
inherently meaningful and suggestive (unlike purely
conditional, artificial pronouns earlier suggested such as "e,
et, mon, na, ne, po, se, tey").
#"Hu" is a short, one syllable word.
The use of "hu" (2 keystrokes) cuts effectively the
time needed to type "he or she" (9 keystrokes);
cf. "huself" (6)  and "himself or herself," (18) etc. This is a
substantial economy of time, space,
and effort in our frequent daily use of gender-neutral pronouns,
especially in e-mails.
# "Hu" fits the pattern of existing 3rd person pronouns ("he" and "she"),
first, by including the  consonant "h" common to all of
them; second, by containing only one vowel, like all of
them.  "Hu - he - she" - these words, all open syllables,
one consonant plus one vowel, are good partners in
distributing the gender roles within one lexical family.
# The spelling of "hu" coincides with its pronunciation; there
are no irregularities of the k ind that damages, for example, the
"s/he" pronoun, making it good in writing but unpronouncible.
# "Hu" is used in a regular grammatical manner, in
contrast to "they." "Hu" can be used automatically, without
twisting the sentence to put all nouns in plu ral or
exploiting "they" in a disagreeable manner to refer to a
singular person.
# It is easy to form derivatives from "hu" following the
existing patterns:  "hus," "hu" ("hum"), and "huself".
# If we decide to borrow a gender-neutral pronoun from
ano ther language, we'll have to consider the Persian "u,"
Arabic "hu" and Old English "ou." All of them could be
easily incorporated in contemporary English with the
addition or preservation of "h", as a shortened form of the
genderless "human". It is also noteworthy that some modern-day languages, such as [[Finnish]], use only gender-neutral 3rd person pronouns.

So far, I d on't see any strong logical or histori cal
arguments against hu-language. Its advantages over other
contenders are too obvious to ignore.

I acknowledge, however, that language rarely is guided by logic or even by 
historical parallels and precedents. Wor ds have their own  magic, and, like 
bo oks, have their fate. I feel this magic and potential
in the "hu" language. It is the language of undivided HUmanness.

In the near future, this HUmaness will need even better articulation to 
distinguish our specie s from artificial "it" forms of intellig ence that are 
rising to a more active role in civilization and language. Soon we'll have to 
answer such  questions as "Who is reading, writing, calculating, speaking, even 
thinking?" The answer may be "hu" (huma n) or "it" (machine). We need "hu" not 
o nly to speak equally about men and women, but in order to speak differently 
about humans and non-humans who share with us many similar
qualities and predicates and fulfill many comparable tasks.
We increasingly n eed "hu" as a sign of a humanly specific
a ctor or agent in the language of mental actions and symbolical
interactions.

In a celebrated episode of "Star Trek: The Next
Generation," the crew of the Enterprise manages to liberate an
individual from the hive-like structure of the maleficent Borg
Collective. They name hum, of course, Hu(gh)!

Coined by [[Mikhail Epstein]].

*See [[Protologism]], [[Nelogisms: Unstable]]
{{protologism}}
[[Category:Protologism]]