'''Ignorance''' is a lack of [[knowledge]] or a willful lack of desire to improve the efficiency, merit, effectiveness or usefulness of one's actions.  

In [[politics]], it is almost always used as a pejorative label, but some [[political movement]]s have raised it to an [[ideals|ideal]], for instance the [[Know-Nothing]]s of the [[19th century]] [[United States]] and some peasant and agrarian movements.  This is usually simply a rejection of [[academia]] and [[profession]]s and other [[power structure]]s that are based on [[knowledge]].  A modern expression of this is the so-called "[[common sense conservative]]" who celebrates being unable to understand arguments for [[left-wing politics]] or [[green politics]] that violates his many pre-existing assumptions.  This is a very common way to support a regime of [[property rights]] for instance, as one claiming ignorance of how property was acquired (say by [[force]] or [[fraud]]) can also claim righteous indignation when his rights in it may be curtailed.

Despite the admonition in some faiths that '''ignorance is bliss''', some [[religion]]s are particularly adamant that it does more harm that good.  For instance, [[Islam]] views ignorance as a particular and unique [[evil]] that can and should easily be dispelled:  "Seek knowledge, even as far as [[China]]." - [[Muhammad]]

In a [[society]] with a strong [[hierarchy]] or [[caste]] system, ignorance of the concerns of those one does not work or deal with directly may aid [[labour specialization]], reduce [[jealousy]] and [[dissent]], and otherwise serve the interests of social harmony.  In such a society, control of any [[mass media]] tends to be carefully controlled, and one tends to perform one job for life.  

There are few or no [[ethical tradition]]s today that emphasize plain ignorance as a value.  However, certain [[ideology|ideologies]] persist that find it useful or desirable.

When cultures meet however, ignorance can become particularly dangerous, as one's inability to comprehend the customs of others can lead to offense and thus harm.  When [[European]]s began [[colonization]] of [[North America]], there were many incidents in which conflict arose from unintended misunderstandings.  There were of course also many bona fide clashes of [[values]] and bigotry - a particularly noxious byproduct of ignorance being [[racism]] and intolerance.

What is different is by and large seen as dangerous and threatening in [[animal cognition]].

In humans, ignorance of another's [[lifeway]]s or circumstances, failure to [[empathy|empathize]] with his or her [[experience]], is cited in [[political science]] as one of the most common causes of conflict.  Thus to build common experiences, e.g. to plant [[olive tree]]s in regions where they have been torn up due to conflict, and learn at the same time, is thought to be one of the most effective forms of [[education]] and also of [[peacemaking]].  [[Bernard Crick|Crick]]'s [[political virtues]] emphasize this kind of skill and activity where it is difficult or impossible to actually share perspectives.

{{wikiquote}}
See also:  [[trust]], [[doubt]], [[truth]], [[secrecy]], [[list of ethics topics]]
[[Category:Core issues in ethics]]