==Translingual==

'''In'''<br>{{chemistry}} symbol for [[indium]]
[[Category:Symbols]]
----

==English==
[[Category:English prepositions]]
[[Category:German prepositions]]
====Homophones====
*[[inn]]

===Noun===
'''in'''
#A [[position]] of [[power]] or a way to get it.
#:''His parents got him an '''in''' with the company''
#(''in games'') The state of a [[batter]]/[[batsman]] who is [[currently]] [[batting]]

===Preposition===
'''in'''

#Indicates containment.
#:The dog is in the kennel.
#Surrounded by.
#:We are in the city walls.
#Of that particular thing.
#:''He has passed in English.''

====Related terms====
*[[inner]]
*[[inside]]
*[[into]]
*[[within]]
*[[in it]]
*[[in love]]
*[[in trouble]]

====Translations====

'''in'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Albanian: [[në]]
*Arabic: [[في]] (fi), [[...بـ...|بِـ]] (bi...)
*Basque: [[-an]] ''([[locative]])''
*Bulgarian: [[в]] (v)
*Croatian: [[u]]
*Czech: [[v]]
*Dutch: [[in#Dutch|in]]
*[[Dyirbal]]: [[-ŋga]] / [[-ga]] / [[-ɽa]] ''([[locative]])''
*Esperanto: [[en]]
*Finnish: [[-ssa]] / [[-ssä]] ''([[inessive]])''
*French: [[dans]]
*German: [[in#German|in]]
*Greek: [[εἰς]] (eis)
*Hawaiian: [[i#Hawaiian|i]], [[iā]]; [[ma]]
*Hebrew: [[...ב]] (be...)
*Hungarian: [[-ban]] / [[-ben]] ''([[inessive]])''
*[[Icelandic]]: [[í]], [[inni]]
* {{io}} : [[en]]
*Indonesian: [[di]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[in#Interlingua|in]]
*Irish: [[i#Irish|i]]
*Italian: [[in#Italian|in]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[に]] (ni), [[中に|の中に]] ([[のなかに]], no náka ni), [[で]] (de)
*Korean: [[...의 안에]] (...ui ane)
*Latin: [[in#Latin|in]]
*[[Pashto]]: [[په]] (pe)
*Polish: [[w]]
*Portuguese: [[em]]
*[[Quechua]]: [[-pi]] ''([[locative]])''
*Russian: [[в]] (v)
*Serbian: [[у]] (u)
*Spanish: [[en]]
*Swahili: [[m-]] / [[mu-]] ''(noun class 18)''
*[[Swedish]]: [[inne]]; [[i#Swedish|i]], [[på]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[sa]], [[nasa]]
*[[Tajik]]: [[дар]] (dar)
*Turkish: [[-da]] / [[-de]] ''([[locative]])''
*Vietnamese: [[ở]]
*Yiddish: [[אן]] (in)
*[[Yoruba]]: [[ní]]
*[[Yup'ik]]: [[-mi]] ''sg'', [[-gni]] ''dual'', [[-ni]] ''pl'' ''([[localis case]])''
|}
|}

===Adverb===
#Located indoors, especially: at home or the office and available for conversation
#:Example: ''Is Mr. Smith in?''
#Moving towards the interior of a house or room
#:Example: ''Suddenly a strange man walked in.''
#(cricket, baseball)
#:Still able to bat.

====Translations====
*German: [[herein]], [[hinein]] (2)
*Irish: [[isteach]] (2)

====Antonyms====
*[[out]]

----

== Dutch ==
===Pronunciation===
/In/ 

===Preposition===
'''in'''

# expressing containment.

=== Examples ===

''De geest in de fles'': the genie in the bottle.

==== Translations ====
* English: in (on this page)
* Icelandic: [[í]]
* [[Lojban]]: [[nenri]] (brivla), [[ne'i]] (tense)
* Spanish: [[en]]
----
==Italian==
===Preposition===
'''in'''
#in
#[[to]]
#[[into]]
#[[by]]

====Combined forms====
''When followed by a definite article'', '''in''' ''is combined with the article to give the following combined forms'':

<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="5">
<tr><th>In + article<th>Combined form</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[il#Italian|il]]<td align="center">[[nel]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[lo#Italian|lo]]<td align="center">[[nello]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[l'#Italian|l']]<td align="center">[[nell']]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[i#Italian|i]]<td align="center">[[nei]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[gli]]<td align="center">[[negli]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[la#Italian|la]]<td align="center">[[nella]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[le#Italian|le]]<td align="center">[[nelle]]</tr>
</table>

----

==Latin==
===Preposition===
'''in'''

#(with ablative) in, at, on
#(with accusative) into
----
==[[Volapük]]==
===Preposition===
'''in'''

#in
[[ja:in]]
[[pl:in]]
[[pt:in]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]