==Adjective==

A body that has no substance or mass.


==Antonyms==

[[corporeal]]

==Discussion==
<!--
Incorporeal things are those that seem to exist but can not actually be touched, have no mass, and otherwise are only real in the sense that they appear to be real in an illusory way.-->
Incorporeal is the descriptional attribute of something that cannot be manifested into anything tangible or at least representational at a one dimensional level. Something incorporeal can only be represented at least at a zero-dimensional level, and thus incomprehendable by anything manifested and viewing it at a level higher than anything zero-dimensional. Something that is 'incorporeal' is without tangible material substance or form.

Zero-dimensional in this context is referring to something that is in existence, but without normal attributes of matter or energy and thus indescribable and invisible. Zero-dimensional is not referring to the the measure of dimensions in the same way -1 is to +1, but merely is referring to the lack of dimensions, i.e. it would be 0 in the middle of -1 and +1.

The word 'incorporeal' is most usually used to describe spirits and bodiless entities or deities that cannot be represented in statue or any other common representation, such as a painting.

The definition can seem ambiguous as it refers to a thing that is without form or material substance, yet still stipulating the thing being there or in existence. Something that is incorporeal is intangible and thus not understandable by human eyes, yet the word refers to it's existence, yet it doesn't exist in the same dimensions as we perceive everything else. In this sense, however, it shouldn't be confused with the term extra-dimensional, as that is something that can exist outside the boundaries of three dimensions, yet still exist within them. Something that is incorporeal is not deemed to have those same attributes, but merely, lack them. The true definition of incorporeal assumes that the thing being described as incorporeal has no mass or weight, nor energetic potential or carrying potential energy, but still exists. This is also leads to the fact that if something is massless or weightless, then it has no density. No density requires no mass, and thus no mass is something that occupies no space and thus has no dimensions.

Due to the abstract meaning of the word, the use of it, thusly, is very rare in regular contexts, and mostly used to describe something supernatural or unexplainable, or describe physical (essentially in-physical) attributes of a deity.