{{webster}}
''See also'' '''[[Jack]]'''

==English==
===Pronunciation===
*jăk, /dʒæk/, /<tt>dZ{k</tt>/

===Noun===
'''jack''' (''plural'' '''jacks''')

# A device used to raise and (temporarily) support a heavy object.
#:''car jack''
#:''pneumatic jack''
# (''[[playing_cards]]'') The card ranking between the [[ten]] and [[queen]] of any suit, with a picture of a knave or prince on its face; often with value 11.
# A male [[ass]].
#A socket for electrical equipment.
#:''telephone jack''
# One of many X-shaped metal structures.
# A target ball in bowls, etc.
# (''colloquial, short for'' '''jackshit''') Nothing.
# A small [[flag]] at the [[bow]] of a [[ship]]
# A [[coarse]] and cheap [[medieval]] coat of [[defense]], especially one made of [[leather]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''':  The [[aketon]], [[gambeson]], [[vambasium]], and jack were military [[vestment]]s, calculated for the [[defence]] of the body, differing little from each other, except in their names, their materials and construction were nearly the same, the authorities quoted in the notes, [[shew]] they were all composed of many folds of linen, stuffed with [[cotton]], [[wool]] or [[hair]], [[quilt]]ed, and commonly covered with [[leather]], made of [[buck]] or [[doe]] skin. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 15.

====Synonyms====
*(''playing card''): [[knave]]
*(''male ass''): [[jackass]]

====Translations====

'''device for raising and supporting a heavy object'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[cric#French|cric]] ''m''
*Italian: [[cric#Italian|cric]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''playing card'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[valet#French|valet]] ''m''
*Italian: [[fante]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''male ass'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[âne]] ''m''
*Italian: [[asino]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''electrical socket'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''X-shaped metal structure'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''target ball in bowls'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: nothing'''
''See'' '''[[jackshit]]'''

'''flag at bow of ship'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''coarse medieval coat'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Czech: [[kluk]], [[spodek]] ''m'' (2)
*Danish: [[donkraft]] ''c'' (1); [[knægt]] ''c'' (2); [[æselhingst]] ''c'' (3)
*Dutch: [[boer]] ''m'' (2), [[zot]] ''m'' (2) (''Flemish'')
*Slovak: dolník ''m'' (2)

===Proper noun===
''See'' '''[[Jack]]'''

====See also====
*[[bootjack]]
*[[cheap-jack]]
*[[jack in]]
*[[jack off]]
*[[jack plug]]
*[[one-eyed jack]]

[[it:jack]]
[[nl:jack]]