==English==
<!-- from webster 

Jet (Page: 799)
Jet (?), n. Same as 2d Get. [Obs.] Chaucer. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jet (Page: 799)
Jet, n. [OF. jet, jayet, F. ja\'8bet, jais, L. gagates, fr. Gr. ; -- so called from or , a town and river in Lycia.] [written also jeat, jayet.] (Min.) A variety of lignite, of a very compact texture and velvet black color, susceptible of a good polish, and often wrought into mourning jewelry, toys, buttons, etc. Formerly called also black amber. Jet ant (Zoöl.), a blackish European ant (Formica fuliginosa), which builds its nest of a paperlike material in the trunks of trees. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jet (Page: 799)
Jet, n. [F. jet, OF. get, giet, L. jactus a throwing, a throw, fr. jacere to throw. Cf. Abject, Ejaculate, Gist, Jess, Jut.] 

1. A shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which issues in a jet. 

2. Drift; scope; range, as of an argument. [Obs.] 

3. The sprue of a type, which is broken from it when the type is cold. Knight. Jet propeller (Naut.), a device for propelling vessels by means of a forcible jet of water ejected from the vessel, as by a centrifugal pump. -- Jet pump, a device in which a small jet of steam, air, water, or other fluid, in rapid motion, lifts or otherwise moves, by its impulse, a larger quantity of the fluid with which it mingles. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jet (Page: 799)
Jet, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jetted (?); p. pr. & vb. n. Jetting.] [F. jeter, L. jactare, freq. fr. jacere to throw. See 3d Jet, and cf. Jut.] 

1. To strut; to walk with a lofty or haughty gait; to be insolent; to obtrude. [Obs.] 

he jets under his advanced plumes! Shak.
To jet upon a prince's right. Shak.
2. To jerk; to jolt; to be shaken. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

3. To shoot forward or out; to project; to jut out. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jet (Page: 799)
Jet, v. t. To spout; to emit in a stream or jet. 

A dozen angry models jetted steam. Tennyson.
-->
===Etymology===
====The spout of fluid====
From [[French]] jet, [[Old French]] get, giet, [[Latin]] [[jactus]] (a throwing, a [[throw]]) from [[jacere]] (to throw). See [[Abject]], [[Ejaculate]], [[Gist]], [[Jess]], [[Jut]]. 
====The stone or coal====
From [[Old French]] / [[French]]  jet, jayet, [[Latin]] [[gagates]], after [[Greek]] [[Gagas]], a town and river in [[Lycia]].
===Noun===
'''jet''' ([[jets]])

# A [[stream]], [[spout]], [[spurt]] or [[flow]] of [[liquid]] or [[gas]] from a [[pressurize]]d [[container]], an [[engine]], etc.
# A class of [[airplane]] whose engines use [[turbine]]s rather than [[propellor]]s. 
# A hard, [[black]] form of [[coal]], sometimes used in [[jewellery]].
# (colour) The [[colour]] of jet (3), deep black.
#:<table><tr><td>jet colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#3E3E3E" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
#An engine that propels a vehicle using a stream of fluid as propulsion. 
#A part of a [[carburetor]] that controls the amount of fuel mixed with the air.


====Translations====
'''spray'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[струя]] ''f'' 
*Dutch: [[straal]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[suihku]]
*French: jet ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[噴射]] (ふんしゃ, funsha),[[射出]] (しゃしゅつ, shashutsu)
|}
|}
'''airplane'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[реактивен]] [[самолет]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[straalvliegtuig]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[suihkukone]] 
*French: jet ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[ジェット機]] (じぇっとき, jettoki)
|}
|}
'''coal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[черен]] [[кехлибар]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[瑿]]
*Finnish: [[gagaatti]]
*French: jais
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[黒玉]] (くろたま, kurotama), [[貝褐炭]] (ばいかつたん, baikatsutan)
|}
|}
'''colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[koolzwart]] ''n'' 
*French: jais
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[漆黒]] (しっこく, shikkoku)
|}
|}
===Intransitive verb===
'''to jet''' ([[jets]], [[jetted]], [[jetting]])

# To spray out of a container.
# To travel on a jet (2).

===Adjective===
'''jet'''

# Propelled by turbine engines, e.g. ''jet airplane''.
# (colour) of a very dark black in colour.

====Translations====
'''propelled'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[реактивен]] ''m'' 
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Related terms===

:''See'' [[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]
*[[gas jet]]
*[[jet engine]]
*[[jet fighter]], [[fighter jet]]
*[[jet off]]
*[[jet turbine]]
*[[jetski]], [[jet ski]]
*[[jet stream]], [[jetstream]]
*[[jump jet]]
*[[pulse jet]]
*[[turbo jet]], [[turbojet]]
*[[ram jet]], [[ramjet]]

----

==Czech==
===Verb===
'''jet''' ([[jedu]], [[jedeš]], [[jede]], [[jedeme]], [[jedete]], [[jedou]])
#to [[go]]
----

==French==
===Noun===
'''jet''' ''m''

# [[throw]]
# [[spurt]], [[spout]]

===Related terms===
*[[jeter]]
[[Category:English colors]]
[[it:jet]]
[[ja:jet]]