==English==

===Verb===
# (''US, colloquial'') To be deceptive.
#: ''Don't try to jive me!  I know where you were last night!''
# (''US, colloquial'') To agree or accord.
#: ''That explanation at least jives with what we know.''
# (''US, colloquial'')  To dance.

====Usage Notes====
"Jive" and "[[jibe]]" can be used interchangeably in the U.S. to indicate the concept "to agree or accord"; each has been used in that capacity for at least a hundred years stateside. However, "jibe" (or "gibe") is a pure Americanism and is unknown in other English-speaking countries.

*[[Cab Calloway]]'s ''Hepster's Dictionary'' defined '''jive''' as
:(1) (n) [[Harlem, Manhattan|Harlem]]ese speech or [[lingo]]; also stuff and things. Ex. "did you bring the jive [i.e. liquor]?"
:(2) (v) to kid along, to blarney, to give a girl a line. Ex. "He can jive his way into any chick's heart".
*'''Jive''' is a slang term which refers to [[ebonics]] in a general sense. See also [[African American Vernacular English]].
*'''Jive''' (noun) can also mean talking in a misleading, false, worthless, or glib way, as in ''You're jivin' me ...'', ''Don't give me none of that jive talk!'', or ''That's close enough for jive'', a ''jive turkey'' is someone behaving in a [[glib]] and [[disingenuous]] fashion
* '''Jive''' (verb) is an [[ebonics]] [[slang]] term meaning "jibe", "mix with" or "reconcile well with;" i.e. aggreeability or harmonization; ''"That don't particularly ''jive'' with my understanding of the situation."''

===Noun===
'''jive'''

# (''US, colloquial'') Nonsense; transparently deceptive talk.
#: ''Don't give me that jive.  I know where you were last night.''

===See Also===

*[[bullshit]]
*[[jibe]]