==English==
===Etymology 1===
Unknown.  Suggested to be a [[hypocoristic]] for [[John]].
===Noun===
'''jock'''
# (''slang, archaic'') a common man
===Etymology 2===
The computer slang meanings are derived from the athletic slang meanings.  The athletic slang meanings in turn date from the middle 20th century and are simple abbreviations of {{E.}} [[jockstrap]], which is in turn derived from the older slang meaning of [[jock]] itself, which dates from the 17th century, and whose etymology is unknown.
===Noun===
'''jock'''
# (''slang, rare'') [[penis]]
# an [[athletic supporter]] worn by men to support the genitals especially during sports, a [[jockstrap]]
# (''United States English, slang'') an [[athlete]]
# (''United States English, slang, pejorative'') an enthusiastic athlete or sports fan, especially one with few other interests.  A slow-witted person of large size and great physical strength.
# (''United States English, slang'') a specialist computer programmer
#:'''usage note''': Usually the noun is part of a noun phrase explicitly denoting the particular speciality, such as a "[[compiler]] jock" or a "[[systems]] jock".  Usage of the word alone with this meaning is rare.

===Etymology 3===
Believed to be a Scots variant of [[Jack]].  Because of its specific association with Scotland, the British English slang term is believed by most sources to be derived from the frequency of the use of the given name on Scotland, rather than from the "common man" etymology.
===Proper noun===
'''Jock'''
# a male [[given name]]
===Noun===
'''Jock'''
# (''British English, slang'') a [[scotsman]]
#:'''usage note''': Some speakers consider the term pejorative.  Others consider it no more pejorative than, for example, the similar generic use of "[[Joe]]".
====See also====
* [[Jimmy]] 
* [[Paddy]] 
* [[Mick]]