==Filipino==

['''jo'''-logs] /_____/


=== Alternate Spelling ===
'''jologz''', '''jolog'''  ''(Filipino slang)''

=== Etymology ===
From pinoy discotheque with a French-sounding name '''[[Jaloux]]''', in business operation up to the mid 1990s in Quezon City, Philippines. Underpriviledged creekside slum boys ([[skwaking]]) with an eye to enter the discotheque (prohibitive prices and burly bouncers notwithstanding) seemed incapable of pronouncing 'jaloux' as [ja-'lou] which is how asshole [[coño]] boys and girls circa 1994 did pronounce. Undaunted, these poor dirty street-strutting boys in hip-hop rags took to saying "Ja-lux tayo" (trans., "What say we check out Jaloux"). The economically better-off kids make fun of them for letting their ignorance hang out like oversized hip-hop belts dangling from thin underfed waists. "Mga 'jalux', o!" (trans., "There go the 'jalux'"). Over time this slang sound became 'jologs' as we know it today.

[NOTE: I invite people who know this slang to check other sources and update this etymology for historical accuracy. ]

In recent '''Philippine cinema''' a feature film about urban youth life titled '''''[[Jologs]]''''' (2003) has been produced and released.

=== Noun ===
'''jologs''', plural '''mga jologs''' (''slang'')

# original meaning: riff-raff; a young person from the squatter area, usually a teenaged male or female 
#: ''May mga jologs na nakatira sa may creek  (some jologs live there at the creek's edge)''
# present con.: any person deemed to be acting, exhibiting behaviours, in a manner similar to the commonly observed behaviour of squatter teenagers 
#: ''`Wag ka nga magulo, jologs ka  (hey cut it out, you're being jologs)''

=== Adjective ===

# gaudy, vulgar, kitschy, without refinement in taste 
#: ''Pang-jologs na damit  (a garment that jologs wear)''

=== Related words ===
:''See'' 
* [[skwaking]]
* [[adik]]
* [[gago]]
* [[apaking]]
:''Compare'' 
* [[konyo]]

=== Translations ===

* Japanese: [[馬鹿]]（ばか, baka）
* French: [[âne]] | [[bête]]
* Italian: [[scemo]] | [[volgare]] | [[maleducato]]
* English: [[crAss]] [[cheap]] [[vulgar]]


=== Verb ===
'''jumologs''', jologin, jinologs

# make a complete jackass of oneself (to do sth. without refinement)
#: ''Gusto kong magwala, jumologs ...  (I wanna go wild)''
# play a practical joke on someone for the sake of cheap thrills
#: ''Jologin natin siya  (Let's play a trick on him/her)''
# double-cross another person
#: ''Jinolog mo ako!  (You said one thing and did another thing)''

=== Translations ===
:Translations are listed under [[jologs]].