==English==

===Etymology===
From [[Old English]] ''[[jugement]]'', [[French]] ''jugement'', [[Late Latin]] ''[[judicamentum]]'', from [[Latin]] ''[[judicare]]''. See [[judge]].

===Noun===
'''judgment''' (''plural'' '''judgments''')
#The act of [[judge|judging]]; the [[operation]] of the mind, involving [[comparison]] and [[discrimination]], by which a [[knowledge]] of the values and relations of things, whether of [[moral]] [[quality|qualities]], [[intellectual]] [[concept]]s, [[logical]] [[proposition]]s, or [[material]] [[fact]]s, is obtained; as, by careful '''judgment''' he avoided the peril; by a series of wrong '''judgments''' he forfeited confidence.
#:*I oughte deme, of skilful '''jugement''', That in the salte sea my wife is deed. - [[Geoffrey Chaucer]].
#The [[power]] or [[faculty]] of performing such operations; esp., when unqualified, the faculty of judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely; good sense; as, a man of judgment; a politician without judgment.
#*He shall judge thy people with righteousness and thy poor with '''judgment'''. - ''Psalms 72:2'' ([[Bible]]).
#*Hermia. I would my father look'd but with my eyes. Theseus. Rather your eyes must with his '''judgment''' look. - Shakespeare, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'', I-i
#The [[conclusion]] or result of judging; an [[opinion]]; a [[decision]].
#:*She in my '''judgment''' was as fair as you. - Shakespeare, ''Two Gentlemen of Verona'', IV-iv
#*Who first his '''judgment''' asked, and then a place. - [[Alexander Pope]].
#The act of determining, as in courts of law, what is conformable to law and justice; also, the [[determination]], [[decision]], or [[sentence]] of a court, or of a judge; the [[mandate]] or sentence of God as the judge of all.
#*In '''judgments''' between rich and poor, consider not what the poor man needs, but what is his own. - [[Jer. Taylor]].
#:*Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the '''judgment'''. - Shakespeare, ''Merchant of Venice'', IV-i
#(''[[Philosophy]]'') 
##That act of the mind by which two notions or ideas which are apprehended as distinct are compared for the purpose of ascertaining their agreement or disagreement. The comparison may be threefold: (1) Of individual objects forming a concept. (2) Of concepts giving what is technically called a '''judgment'''. (3) Of two '''judgments''' giving an inference. '''Judgments''' have been further classed as analytic, synthetic, and identical. 
##That power or faculty by which knowledge dependent upon comparison and discrimination is acquired.
##:*A '''judgment''' is the mental act by which one thing is affirmed or denied of another. - [[Sir W. Hamilton]].
##:*The power by which we are enabled to perceive what is true or false, probable or improbable, is called by logicians the faculty of '''judgment'''. - [[Stewart?]].
#A calamity regarded as sent by God, by way of recompense for wrong committed; a providential [[punishment]]. 
#:*'''Judgments''' are prepared for scorners. - ''Proverbs 19:29'' ([[Bible]]). 
#:*This '''judgment''' of the heavens that makes us tremble. - Shakespeare, ''King Lear'', V-iii
#(''[[Theology]]'') The final [[award]]; the last sentence. 

'''Judgment''', [[abridgment]], [[acknowledgment]], and [[lodgment]] are in England sometimes written, judgement, abridgement, acknowledgement, and lodgement. &hand; Judgment is used adjectively in many self-explaining combinations; as, judgment hour; judgment throne. 

===Derived terms===
*[[arrest of judgment]]
*[[judgment day]]
*[[judgment debt]]
*[[judgment hall]]
*[[judgment of God]]
*[[judgment seat]]
*[[judgment summons]]

<!-- move these to separate pages
#(''[[Theology]]'') Judgment day, the last day, or period when final judgment will be pronounced on the subjects of God's moral government. -- 
#(''[[Law]]'') Judgment debt, a debt secured to the creditor by a judge's order. 
#'''Judgment''' hall, a hall where courts are held.
#'''Judgment''' seat, the seat or bench on which judges sit in court; hence, a court; a tribunal. 
#:*We shall all stand before the '''judgment''' seat of Christ. ''Romans xiv. 10'' ([[Bible]]).
#(''[[Law]]'') '''Judgment''' summons, a proceeding by a '''judgment''' creditor against a '''judgment''' debtor upon an unsatisfied '''judgment'''. 
#(''[[Law]]'')Arrest of '''judgment'''. See under [[Arrest]].
#'''Judgment''' of God, a term formerly applied to extraordinary trials of secret crimes, as by arms and single combat, by ordeal, etc.; it being imagined that God would work miracles to vindicate innocence. See under [[Ordeal]].
-->

===Synonyms===
[[WikiSaurus:judgment]]

{{webster}}

{{cleanup}}