{{wikipedia}}

==English==
===Etymology===
*Probably from the name of legendary [[Indo-Iranian]] [[warrior]]  named ''Kamboja'', (placed  at 12th generation from [[Swayambhuva Manu]]) of Indian tradtions. This Kamboja had won the prized Khadaga ([[Divine Sword]]) from [[Kuvalashava]], the celebrated [[Monarch|king]]  of [[Kosala]] ( MBH 12/166/77). It is probable that  ''Kamboja'' of  Shantiparva ([[Mahabharata]]) was some very earlier [[Kambujiya]] or [[Kambujiya |Kamboujiya]] of [[Persia]]n traditions. See also [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cambyses]

===Pronunciation===
*kum’bo’ja

===Propor noun===
'''Kamboja'''  (''plural''  [[Kambojas]])

# Name of an ancient [[Indo-Iranian]] [[warrior]] [[clan]] of [[Indo-European]] family. 
# Name of ancient nation founded and ruled by Kambojas. 
# [[Monarch|Prince]] of the Kambojas. 
# A descendent of the Kamboja Kshatriyas.
# A horse raised and bred in Kamboja (also [[Kambojaka]]).
# An elephant native to Kamboja  (also [[Kambu]]).
# Silver or gold native to Kamboja (also Kambu).
# Name of conch or shell native to Kamboja (also Kambu).
# Supari or Punnag  (Rottleria tinctoria) native to Kamboja.
# Somavalak or Karanj native to or coming from Kamboja.
# Gold or silver bracelet, or bracelet in general (also Kambu).
# Name of a mountain located in ancient Kamboja ([[Afghanistan]]) famous for its Kambu, [[Kambuka]] or [[Kambujika]] silver.
# Name of a ancient [[Raaga]]/[[Raagini]] (musical mode) originated in ancient Kamboja (also called Kamboji, Kambhoji & Kambodi).

===Proper adjective===

# Born in, coming from or relating to Kamboja or the Kambojas.

====Variant spellings====
*[[Kamboya]] or [[Kamboy]]/[[Kambo]]  ([[Shahbazgarhi]] [[Edicts]] of king [[Ashoka]], UttaradhyanaSutra (11/16)).
*[[Kaamboja]]    (in Ramayana, Mahabharata, Vedic literature etc)
*[[Kambhoja]]    (southern Indian texts) 
*[[Kambojika]] or [[Kambojaka]] (Buddhist texts)
*[[Kaambhoja]]   (southern Indian texts) 
*[[Kumbhoja]]
*[[Camboja]]
*[[Cambuja]]
*[[Kambuja]]     (Paraskara Grhya Sutram 2.1.23)
*[[Kambu]]       ( Asura clan referenced in ([[Markendeya Purana]] (8.1-6), [[Devi Mahatam]] 5.28.1-12)
*[[Kaboja]] (ancient [[Sinhalese]] cave inscriptions)
*[[Kamuia]], [[Kamuio]] ([[Mathura]] Lion Capitol Inscriptions)
*cf: [[Kambujiya]] or perhaps [[Kambaujiya]]/[[Kamboujiya]] of Old [[Persian]] inscriptions.

'''See also''' 
*[[Kamboj]]
*[[Kamboh]]

[[Category:Sanskrit derivations]]

----

==Indonesian==
===Proper noun===
'''Kamboja'''

# [[Cambodia]]