==English==

===Etymology 1===
[[Old English]] ''c&#275;ne'' 'bold, brave' < [[Proto-Germanic]] *''k&#333;njaz''

====Pronunciation====
[[w:International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]] {{IPA|[ki&#720;n]}}

====Adjective====
'''keen'''  ({{compar}}: [[keener]], {{superl}}: [[keenest]])
# [[Sharp]]; having a [[fine]] [[edge]] or point; as, a keen razor, or a razor with a keen edge.
#: "A bow he bare and arwes [arrows] bright and '''kene'''."  -Chaucer.
#: "That my '''keen''' knife see not the wound it makes."  -Shak.
# [[Acute]] of mind; sharp; penetrating; having or expressing mental acuteness; as, a man of keen understanding; a keen look; keen features.
#: "To make our wits more '''keen'''."  -Shak.
#: "Before the '''keen''' inquiry of her thought."  -Cowper.
# Bitter; [[piercing]]; [[acrimonious]]; cutting; stinging; severe; as, keen satire or sarcasm.
#: "Good father cardinal, cry thou amen to my '''keen''' curses."  -Shak.
# Piercing; [[penetrating]]; cutting; sharp; -- applied to cold, wind, etc,; as, a keen wind; the cold is very keen.
#: "Breasts the '''keen''' air, and carols as he goes."  -Goldsmith.
# Eager; vehement; [[fierce]]; as, a keen appetite.
#: "Of full '''kene''' will."  -Piers Plowman.
#: "So '''keen''' and greedy to confound a man."  -Shak.

====={{usage}}=====
Keen is often used in the composition of words, most of which are of obvious signification; as, keen-edged, keen-eyed, keen-sighted, keen-witted, etc.

=====Synonyms=====
*[[prompt]]; [[eager]]; [[ardent]]; [[sharp]]; [[acute]]; [[cutting]]; [[penetrating]]; [[biting]]; [[severe]]; [[sarcastic]]; [[satirical]]; [[piercing]]; [[shrewd]].

====Verb====
'''keen'''  ([[keens]], [[keened]], [[keening]])

[[Transitive]]:
#To sharpen; to make cold. [R.]
#: "Cold winter '''keens''' the brightening flood."  -Thomson.

[[Intransitive]]:
# ''(Ireland):'' To utter a keen. 

===Etymology 2===
[[Irish]] ''[[caoin]]'' 'keen, [[cry]]'

====Noun====
'''keen'''
# A prolonged wail for a deceased person.

[[it:keen]]
[[Category:Irish derivations]]