==[[Dutch]]==

===Pronunciation===
/kUnnen/

===Modal verb===
#[[can]]
#[[to be able]]

====Conjugation====
Auxiliary verb: [[hebben]]

<table border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding =2>
<tr><th>...tense<br>person...</th><th>Present <br>(onvoltooid tegenwoordige tijd)</th><th>Past <br>(onvoltooid verleden tijd)</th><th>Past participle<br> (voltooid deelwoord)</th></tr>
<tr><th colspan=4>singular</th></tr>
<tr><th>[[ik]]</th><td>kan</td><td>kon</td><td>gekund</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[jij]] ([[je]])/[[u]]</th><td>kan</td><td>kon</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[hij]]/[[zij]] ([[ze]])/[[men]]</th><td>kan</td><td>kon</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th colspan=4>plural</th></tr>
<tr><th>[[wij]] ([[we]])</th><td>kunnen</td><td>konden</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[jullie]]</th><td>kunnen</td><td>konden</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[zij]] ([[ze]])</th><td>kunnen</td><td>konden</td><td>id.</td></tr>
</table>

Present participle (onvoltooid deelwoord): [[kunnend]], [[kunnende]]

Imperative (gebiedende wijs): [[kan]]

:'''Notes'''
:*The conjugation of this verb is very different to that of many Dutch verbs. Singular forms of ''kunnen'' are indentical stems with a change of vowel (u becoming a), plural forms of ''kunnen'' are conjugated in the way regular Dutch verbs are conjugated, and the past tense is conjugated in an irregular manner with the same vowel through the line.
::In its conjugation this verb shows similarities with the Dutch verb ''[[mogen]]'', and is more distantly related to the German varient of this verb: [[können]].
:* When the order of ''jij'' (or the unstressed form ''je'') and ''kan'' is reversed, the vowel of the stem transfers back to its original one (u instead of a). Compare ''Jij kan'' (you are able) with ''Kun jij'' (are you able). A t is placed behind the stem when the polite form ''u'' is used (also in this case the vowel of the stem is u instead of a, as it is with the above-mentioned non-polite form), which makes ''Kunt u''.

:'''Usage examples'''
:*''Hij kon goed rennen, omdat hij een getrained sportbeoefenaar was'': He could run well, because he was a trained sportsman.
:*''Ik kan dat niet.'': I am not able to do that.