===Variant===
[[lanch]]
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[launchen]]'' to throw as a [[lance]], Old French ''[[lanchier]]'', another form of ''[[lancier]]'', French ''[[lancer]]'', from [[lance]]

===Pronunciation===
'''Launch'''
*lônch, /lɔːntʃ/, /lO:ntS/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɔːntʃ|Rhymes: -ɔːntʃ]]

===Transitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: '''Launched'''<br>
Present participle: '''Launching''' 

#To throw, as a lance or dart; to hurl; to let fly.
#''(Obsolete):'' To strike with, or as with, a lance; to pierce
#:'''Launch''' your hearts with lamentable wounds. - [[Spenser]]
#To cause to move or slide from the land into the water; to set afloat; as, to '''launch''' a ship.
#:*With stays and cordage last he rigged the ship, And rolled on levers, '''launched''' her in the deep. - [[Pope]]
#To send out; to start (one) on a career; to set going; to give a start to (something); to put in operation.
#: '''launch''' a son in the world
#: '''launch''' a business project or enterprise.
#: All art is used to sink episcopacy, and '''launch''' presbytery in England. - [[Eikon Basilike]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[lanceren]]
*French: [[lancer]]

===Intransitive verb===
#To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to '''launch''' into the current of a stream; to '''launch''' into an argument or discussion; to '''launch''' into lavish expenditures; -- often with out.
#:'''Launch''' out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. - ''Luke 5:4''
#:He [Spenser] '''launches''' out into very flowery paths. - [[Prior]]

===Noun===
#The act of launching.
#The movement of a [[vessel]] from land into the [[water]]; especially, the sliding on ways from the [[stocks]] on which it is built.
#''(Nautical), (Compare Spanish ''[[lancha]]''):'' The [[boat]] of the largest size belonging to a ship of war; also, an open boat of any size driven by [[steam]], [[naphtha]], [[electricity]], or the like. 
===Derived expressons===
*'''Launching ways,''' ''(Nautical):'' See [[way]], (noun-Nautical)

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[lancering]] ''f''
*French: [[lancement]] ''m''