===Etymology===
Old English ''[[lorel]]'', ''[[laurer]]'', ''[[lorer]]'', Old French ''[[lorier]]'', ''[[laurier]]'', French ''laurier'', (assumed) Late Latin ''[[Laurarius]]'', from Latin ''[[laurus]]''

===Pronunciation===
Lau"rel 
*[[IPA]]: [[WEAE]] /ˈlɔɹ.əl/ or /ˈloɹ-/
*[[SAMPA]]: //

===Noun===
'''laurel'''

#An evergreen shrub, of the genus ''[[Laurus]] (L. nobilis)'', having aromatic leaves of a [[lanceolate]] shape, with clusters of small, yellowish white flowers in their [[axils]]; -- called also sweet bay. The fruit is a purple berry. It is found about the Mediterranean, and was early used by the ancient Greeks to crown the [[victor]] in the games of Apollo. At a later period, academic [[honor]]s were indicated by a crown of laurel, with the fruit. The leaves and tree yield an [[aromatic]] oil, used to flavor the bay water of commerce.
#:'''Note:''' The name is extended to other plants which in some respect resemble the true laurel.
#:'''Translations'''
#:*[[Bulgarian]]: [[лавър]] ''m'' 
#:*[[Català]]: [[llorer]] ''m''
#:*[[Dutch]]: [[laurier]] ''m'' 
#:*[[Finnish]]: [[laakeri]]
#:*[[French]]: [[laurier]] ''m''
#:*[[Greek]]: [[δάφνη]] (dafni)
#:*[[Italian]]: [[alloro]] ''m''
#:*[[Spanish]]: [[laurel]]
#:*Swedish: [[lager]]
#:*[[Romanian]]: [[laur]], [[dafin]] 
#A [[crown]] of laurel; hence, honor; distinction; fame; -- especially in the plural; as, to win laurels.
#:'''Translations'''
#:*[[Català]]: [[corona]]
#:*[[Dutch]]: [[lauweren]] ''pl'' 
#:*[[Finnish]]: [[laakerikruunu]] (crown) [[laakeri]] (honor)
#:*[[Spanish]]: [[laureles]], [[corona de laurel]]
#:*Swedish: [[lagerkrans]]
#:*[[Romanian]]: [[lauri]], [[coroană de lauri]]
#An English gold [[coin]] made in 1619, and so called because the king's [[head]] on it was crowned with laurel

===Derived expressions===
*'''Laurel water,''' water distilled from the fresh leaves of the [[cherry laurel]], and containing [[prussic acid]] and other products carried over in the process
*'''American laurel, Mountain laurel,''' ''[[Kalmia latifolia]]''. See under [[mountain]]
*'''California laurel''', ''[[Umbellularia]]'' californica
*'''Cherry laurel''' (in England called laurel). See under [[cherry]]
*'''Great laurel''', the rosebay ''(Rhododendron maximum)''
*'''Ground laurel''', trailing arbutus
*'''New Zealand laurel''', formerly referred to ''[[Laurelia]] novae-zelandiae'' in the family Monimiaceae, now refers to ''[[Corynocarpus]] laevigata'' in family Corynocarpaceae ''(different plants or different names?)''
*'''Portugal laurel''', the ''[[Prunus]] Lusitanica''
*'''Rose laurel''', the [[oleander]]
*'''Sheep laurel''', a poisonous shrub, ''[[Kalmia]] angustifolia'', smaller than the mountain laurel, and with smaller and redder flowers
*'''Spurge laurel''', ''[[Daphne]] Laureola''
*'''West Indian laurel''', ''[[Prunus]] occidentalis''
*'''To rest on one's laurels:''' To rely on a past success instead of trying to improve oneself further
*:'''Translations'''
*:*[[Spanish]]: [[dormirse]] [[sobre]] [[los]] [[laureles]]
*:*[[Català]]: [[adormir]]-[[se]] [[sobre]] [[els]] [[llorers]]

===See also===
*[[Laurel & Hardy]]