*'''Chemical element''': '''[[Pb]]''' (Atomic Number: 82)
**Previous: [[Thallium|Tl]]
**Next: [[Bismuth|Bi]]
----
===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[led]]'', ''[[leed]]'', ''lead'', Anglo Saxon ''[[leád]]''; akin to Dutch ''[[lood]]'', Middle High German ''[[l&#333;t]]'', German ''[[loth]]'' plummet, sounding lead, small weight, Swedish and Danish ''[[lod]]''
==== Pronunciation ====
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: //
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /lεd/
==== Homophones ====
[[led]]
==== Noun ====
'''lead''' 
#''(Chemistry):'' One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic number 82, Atomic weight 206.4, Specific Gravity 11.37, Symbol Pb (from Latin ''[[Plumbum]]''). It is chiefly obtained from the mineral [[galena]].
#An article made of lead or an alloy of lead; as: 
#::(a) A plummet or mass of lead, used in sounding at sea. 
#::(b) (Print.) A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of type in printing.
#::(c) Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs; hence, the plural, a roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I would have the tower two stories, and goodly '''leads''' upon the top. - Bacon
#A small cylinder of black lead or [[plumbago]], used in pencils. 
=====Derived expressions=====
*'''Black lead''', ''(Colloquial)'': graphite or plumbago -- so called from its leadlike appearance and streak. 
*'''Coasting lead:''', a sounding lead intermediate in weight between a hand lead and deep-sea lead
*'''Deep-sea lead:''' the heaviest of sounding leads, used in water exceeding a hundred [[fathom]]s in depth.  - [[Hamersley, ''Naval Encyclopaedia'']]
*'''Hand lead:''' a small lead use for sounding in shallow water.
*'''Krems lead''', or '''Kremnitz lead''', [so called from Krems or Kremnitz, in Austria]: a pure variety of white lead, formed into tablets, and called also Krems, or Kremnitz, white, and Vienna white.
*'''Lead arming:''' tallow put in the hollow of a sounding lead. See '''To arm the lead''' (below).
*'''Lead colic:''' See under [[Colic]]
*'''Lead color:''' a deep bluish gray color, like tarnished lead
*'''Lead glance,''' ''(Mineralogy):'' Same as Galena
*'''Lead line
*::(a) ''(Medicine):'' A dark line along the gums produced by a deposit of metallic lead, due to lead poisoning. 
*::(b) ''(Nautical):'' A sounding line
*'''Lead mill:''' a leaden polishing wheel, used by lapidaries
*'''Lead ocher,''' ''(Mineralogy):'' a massive sulphur-yellow oxide of lead. Same as [[Massicot]]
*'''Lead pencil:''' a pencil of which the marking material is graphite (black lead)
*'''Lead plant, ''(Botany):'' a low leguminous plant, ''Amorpha canescens'', found in the Northwestern United States, where its presence is supposed to indicate lead ore. - [[Asa Gray]]
*'''Lead tree:'''
*::(a) ''(Botany):'' A West Indian name for the tropical, leguminous tree, ''Leucæna glauca''; -- probably so called from the glaucous color of the foliage. 
*::(b) ''(Chemistry):'' Lead crystallized in arborescent forms from a solution of some lead salt, as by suspending a strip of zinc in lead acetate
*'''Mock lead:''' a miner's term for [[blende]]
*'''Red lead:''' a scarlet, crystalline, granular powder, consisting of minium when pure, but commonly containing several of the oxides of lead. It is used as a paint or cement and also as an ingredient of flint glass
*'''Red lead ore,''' ''(Mineralogy):'' [[crocoite]]
*'''Sugar of lead:''' acetate of lead
*'''To arm the lead''': to fill the hollow in the bottom of a sounding lead with tallow in order to discover the nature of the bottom by the substances adhering. - [[Hamersley, ''Naval Encyclopaedia'']]
*'''To cast, or heave, the lead''': to cast the sounding lead for ascertaining the depth of water. 
*'''White lead''': hydrated carbonate of lead, obtained as a white, amorphous powder, and much used as an ingredient of white paint. 

=====External links=====
*[[w:Lead]]
*http://elements.vanderkrogt.net/elem/pb.html (A lot of the translations were taken from that site with permission from the author)

===== Translations =====
'''for the element'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=32%|
{|
*'''Afrikaans''': [[lood]]
*'''Albanian''': [[plumb]]
*'''Arabic''': [[رصاص]]
*'''Armenian''': [[plumbu]]
*'''Basque''': [[beruna]]
*'''Belarussian''': [[цвiнец]]
*'''Bosnian''': [[olovo]]
*'''Breton''': [[plom]] ''m'' ''pl'' plomoù
*'''Bulgarian''': [[олово]]
*'''Catalan''': [[plom]] ''m''
*'''Chinese''': [[鉛]]
*'''Cornish''': [[plom]]
*'''Croatian''': [[olovo]]
*'''Czech''': [[olovo]]
*'''Danish''': [[bly]]
*'''Dutch''': [[lood]] ''n''
*'''Esperanto''': [[plumbo]]
*'''Estonian''': [[plii]]
*'''Faroese''': [[blýggj]]
*'''Finnish''': [[lyijy]]
*'''French''': [[plomb]] ''m''
*'''Frisian''': lead ''n''
*'''Friulian''': [[plomp]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=32%|
{|
*'''Galician''': [[chumbo]]
*'''Georgian''': [[ტყვია]]
*'''German''': [[Blei]] ''n''
*'''Hebrew''': [[עופרת]]
*'''Hungarian''': [[ólom]]
*'''Icelandic''': [[blý]]
*'''Indonesian''': [[timbal]]
*'''Irish''': [[luaidhe]]
*'''Italian''': [[piombo]] ''m''
*'''Japanese''': [[鉛]] ([[なまり]], namari)
*'''Kashmiri''': [[òłów]]
*'''Kazakh''': [[Къогъасын]] (needs to be decapitalized)
*'''Latin''': [[plumbum]]
*'''Latvian''': [[svins]]
*'''Lithuanian''': [[Švinas]]
*'''Luxembourgish''': [[bläi]]
*'''Macedonian''': [[олово]]
*'''Malay''': [[plumbum]]
*'''Maltese''': [[Ċomb]]
*'''Manx''': [[leoaie]]
*'''Modern Greek''': [[Μολυβδος]] '' ''  (needs to be decapitalized)
*'''Mongolian''': [[Хар]] (needs to be decapitalized)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=32%|
{|
*'''Norwegian''': [[bly]]
*'''Persian''': [[سرب]] (sorb)
*'''Polish''': [[ołów]] ''m''
*'''Portuguese''': [[chumbo]]
*'''Romanian''': [[plumb]] ''n''
*'''Russian''': [[свинец]] ''m''
*'''Scottish Gaelic''': [[luaidh]]
*'''Serbian''': [[олово]]
*'''Slovak''': [[olovo]]
*'''Slovenian''': [[svinec]]
*'''Spanish''': [[plomo]] ''m''
*'''Swedish''': [[bly]]
*'''Tajik''': [[surb]]
*'''Thai''': [[ตะกั้ว]]
*'''Turkish''': [[kurşun]]
*'''Ukrainian''': [[свинець]]
*'''Uzbek''': [[Кўогъшсин]] (needs to be decapitalized)
*'''Vietnamese''': [[chì]]
*'''Welsh''': [[plwm]]
|}
|}
====Verb====
'''lead, leaded, leading'''
#To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads the grooves of a rifle.
#''(Printing):'' To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded matter. 

===Etymology 2===
Middle English ''[[leden]]'', from Old English [[lædan|lǣdan]]; Anglo Saxon ''[[ldan]]'' (akin to Old Saxon ''[[ldian]]'', Dutch ''[[leiden]]'', German ''[[leiten]]'', Icelandic ''[[lea]]'', Swedish ''[[leda]]'', Danish ''[[lede]]''), properly a causative from Anglo Saxon ''[[lian]]'' to go; akin to Old High German ''[[la]]'', Icelandic ''[[la]]'', Gothic ''[[leipan]]'' (in comparatives). Compare ''[[lode]]'', ''[[loath]]''
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: //
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /li:d/


==== Verb ====
'''to lead''' ([[led]], led)

====Transitive====

# to [[guide]] somebody somewhere or to [[bring]] somebody somewhere by means of [[instruction]]s
# to [[command]], esp. a [[military]] or [[business]] unit

===== Translations =====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*'''Breton''': [[ren]], [[kas]], [[bleinañ]]
*'''Dutch''': [[leiden]] (1,2), 
*'''Finnish''': [[opastaa]] (1), [[ohjata]] (1), [[johdattaa]] (1), [[johtaa]] (2)
*'''Frisian''': [[stjoere]] (1), [[liede]] (2)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*'''German''': [[führen]], [[leiten]]
*'''Greek''': (Ancient): [[ἄγω]]
*'''Polish''': [[prowadzić]] (1), [[dowodzić]] (2)
*'''Russian''': [[вести]](1), [[возглавлять]](2)
|}
|}
==== Intransitive ====

# to be [[ahead]] of others, e.g. in a [[race]]
# to have the highest [[score]] in a [[game]]
# to be more advanced in [[technology]] or [[business]] than others

===== Translations =====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*'''Breton''': [[bezañ e penn]], [[bezañ o charreat]]
*'''Català''': [[guiar]]
*'''Dutch''': [[leiden]], [[begeleiden]], [[meevoeren]]
*'''Finnish''': [[johtaa]] (1, 2, 3), [[olla]] [[edellä]] (3)
*'''French''': [[conduire]]
*'''German''': [[führen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*'''Indonesian''': [[pimpin]], [[bimbing]], [[tffuntun]]
*'''Japanese''': [[導く]] ([[みちびく]], michibiku)
*'''Polish''': [[prowadzić]] (1, 2), [[przodować]] (3)
*'''Romanian''': [[a conduce]], [[a îndruma]]
*'''Russian''': [[лидировать]](1), [[выигрывать]](2), [[опережать]](3)
|}
|}

[[Category:Chemical elements]]
[[pl:lead]]

====Noun====
'''lead'''
#The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction; as, to take the lead; to be under the lead of another.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*At the time I speak of, and having a momentary '''lead''', . . . I am sure I did my country important service. - [[Edmund Burke]]
#Precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence; as, the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat's length, or of half a second; the state of being ahead in a race; the highest score in a game in an incomplete game.
#''(Cards and Dominoes):'' The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead.
#An open way in an ice field. - [[Elisha Kent Kane]]? ''could be Paul Kane''
#''(Mining):'' A lode
#''(Nautical):'' The course of a rope from end to end.
#A rope, leather strap, or similar device with which to lead an animal; a [[leash]]
#''(Steam Engine):'' The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is at end of its stroke. 
#:'''Note:''' When used alone it means outside lead, or lead for the admission of steam. '''Inside lead''' refers to the release or exhaust.
#''(Civil Engineering):'' the distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment.
#''(Horology) The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling another tooth or a pallet. - [[Claudias Saunier]]

=====Derived expressions====
*'''Lead angle,''' ''(Steam Engine):'' the angle which the crank maker with the line of centers, in approaching it, at the instant when the valve opens to admit steam
*'''Lead screw,''' ''(Machines):'' the main longitudinal screw of a lathe, which gives the feed motion to the carriage. 

=====Translations=====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*'''Breton''' : [[roll]] ''m pl'' rolloù,  delc'her en e roll / gant ar roll
*'''Finnish''': [[talutushihna]] (1), [[johtoasema]] (2), [[johto]] (2, 3), [[kärkitulos]] (3)
|}
|}