==Alternative spellings==
:'''Leap''': Leep, leape.
:'''Leapt''': Leapped, lept. 
==Etymology==
:'''Leap''': From old english [[hlýp]]
:'''Leapt''': Unknown, probable alternate spelling of Leaped (from Leap and suffix -ed). 

==Pronunciation==
:'''Leap''': IPA:/li&#720;p/
:'''Leaped''': IPA:/li&#720;pd/
:'''Leapt''': IPA:/l&#603;pt/ 

==Verb==

'''to leap''' ([[leapt]] / [[leaped]], leapt / leaped)

[[Past tense]] and [[past participle]]: '''Leapt''' or '''leaped''' with no clear rule to favour either form.  The ''t'' form is probably commoner in the UK.

#To [[jump]] from one location to another.

====Quotations====
* '''c. 1450''': It is grete nede a man to go bak to recouer the better his '''leep''' - anonymous, ''Merlin''.
* '''1600''': I, I defie thee: wert not thou next him when he leapt into the Riuer? - anonymous, ''The wisdome of Doctor Dodypoll'', Act 4.
* '''1783''': Th' infernal monarch rear'd his horrid head, '''Leapt''' from his throne, lest Neptune's arm should lay His dark dominions open to the day. - Hugh Blair, from the ''Illiad'' in ''Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres'' Lecture 4, page 65.
* '''1999''': It is better to leap into the void.  - Ai, ''Vice: New & Selected Poems'', page 78. 
====Synonyms====
: [[Jump]], [[spring]]
====Derived terms====
: [[Leapfrog]], [[Leap year]].
====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[springen]], [[wippen]]
*[[French]]: [[sauter]]
*[[German]]: [[springen]], [[hüpfen]]
*[[Hebrew]]: [[קפץ]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[lompat]], [[loncat]], [[lompat|melompat]], [[loncat|meloncat]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[飛躍]]する ([[ひやく]]する, hiyaku-suru)
*[[Romanian]]: [[a sări]], [[a sălta]]
*[[Spanish]]: saltar.

==Noun==
#The act of leaping or jumping
#The distance traversed by a leap or jump
====Quotations====
* '''1969''': ''"That's one small step for man, one giant '''leap''' for mankind."'' - Neil Armstrong, as he became the first man to step on the moon; July 20, 1969.