==English==
===Pronunciation===
[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˈlemən/

===Noun===
'''lemon''' (''plural'' [[lemons]])

#A yellow [[citrus]] [[fruit]].
#A semitropical [[evergreen]] [[tree]] that bears lemons.
#The pale [[yellow]] [[colour]]/[[color]] of lemons.
#The taste or [[flavour]]/[[flavor]] of lemons.
#(''slang'') A [[defective]] or [[inadequate]] item.

====Translations====

'''citrus fruit'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Albanian: [[limon]] ''m''
*[[Breton]]: [[sitron]] ''m'' -où ''plural'', [[suraval]] ''m'' -où ''plural'' (1)
*[[Catalan]]: [[llimona]] ''f''
*Danish: [[citron#Danish|citron]]
*Dutch: [[citroen]]
*Estonian: [[sidrun]]
*Finnish: [[sitruuna]]
*French: [[citron#French|citron]] ''m''
*Frisian: [[sitroen]]
*German: [[Zitrone]] ''f''
*Greek: [[ ]] (lemoni)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Hungarian: [[citrom]]
*Indonesian: [[jeruk nipis]], [[limau]]
*Italian: [[limone]] ''m''
*Irish: [[líomóid]] ''f''
*Polish: [[cytryna]]
*Romanian: [[lămâie]] ''f''
*Slovak: [[citrón#Slovak|citrón]] ''m''
*Slovenian: [[limona]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[limón]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[citron]] ''c''
*Vietnamese: [[quả chanh]]
|}
|}

'''tree'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Catalan]]: [[llimoner]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[citroenboom]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Spanish: [[limonero]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''colour/color'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''taste'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''a defective item'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

The translations below might be out of synch with the definitions above.  Would native speakers please check these translations and insert them into the appropriate table(s) above.

*[[Catalan]]: [[llimona]] ''f'' (3, 4)
*Dutch: [[citroengeel]] (3), [[citroensmaak]] (4)
*Finnish: [[sitruuna]] (3, 4), [[sitruunapuu]] (2)
*Polish: [[drzewo cytrynowe]] (2), [[kolor cytrynowy]] (3)
*Romanian: [[lămâi]] ''m'' (2), [[galben-verziu]] (3), [[acru]] (3)
*Slovenian: [[limona]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[limón]] ''m'' (3, 4)
*Vietnamese: [[cây chanh]] (2), [[mầu chanh]] (3)

===Adjective===
'''lemon'''

#containing or having the [[flavor]] and/or [[scent]] of lemons.
#of a pale yellow colour.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[citroen]]- (1), [[citroengele]] (2)
*Estonian: [[sidrunkollane]] (2)
*French: [[jaune citron]] (2)
*Polish: [[cytrynowy]] (1)
*Romanian: [[galben-verziu]] (2)
*Slovak: [[citrónový]] ''m'', [[citrónová]] ''f'', [[citrónové]] ''n'' (1)
*Slovene: [[limonin]] ''m'', [[limonina]] ''f'', [[limonino]] ''n'', [[limonov]] ''m'', [[limonova]] ''f'', [[limonovo]] ''n''
*Swedish: [[citron-]] (1), [[citrongul]] (2)
*Vietnamese: [[có chanh]] (1a), [[mầu chanh]] (2)

====Related terms====
*[[lemonade]]
*[[lemon curd]]
*[[lemon meringue pie]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Wiktionary list of colours]]
*[[w::Lemon|Wikipedia article on lemons]]

[[Category:English adjectives]]
[[Category:English nouns]]