==English==
===Etymology===
From French ''[[libertaire]]'' ("[[anarchist]]"), formed from ''[[liberté]]'' ("freedom", from Latin ''libertas'') and the suffix ''-aire'' (from Latin ''-arius'').

N.B. The French term was coined when anarchist publications were banned by law in France.  The anarchists invented the synonym ''libertaire'' in order to skirt the ban.

===Pronunciation===
* IPA: [[Received Pronunciation|RP]] /ˌlɪbəˈtɛəɹjən/

===Noun===
# A believer in libertarian socialism, a belief system holding social freedom as the highest political goal and aiming to overthrow all systems of power it deems unjustified (incl. but not limited to those of corporations and national governments) and to create a type of [[socialist]] order in which the State is not necessary and thus abolished.  Also 'left-' or 'social(ist) [[anarchist]]', '[[anarch]]', 'libertarian socialist'.
# In a loose sense, someone advocating freedom either generally or on a specific issue, e.g. "civil libertarian" (in favour of civil liberties).
# In philosophy, a believer in thinking beings' freedom to choose their own destiny, i.e. a believer in [[Free Will]] as opposed to those who believe the future is predetermined.
# (Chiefly US) A believer in a political doctrine that emphasises individual freedom, and thus stresses a lack of governmental regulation and oversight both in matters of the economy ('free market') and in those concerning the individual (minimal curbs to freedom).  Prefixed to '[[Republican]]': a member of the Republican Party (especially a legislator) who emphasizes economic and Constitutional, rather than religious and social) aspects of the party's platform.
# Capitalised: A member of a political party or movement that uses the term "Libertarian" in its name (e.g., the Libertarian Party of the United States), and is likely to support policies that are libertarian in sense number 4).

===Adjective===
# Relating to the beliefs of libertarians as defined above.

===See also===
* [[w:Libertarianism]]
* [[w:Anarchism]]