Pronounciation: /l'yn/
===Noun===
#A straight path through 2 or more points.  (See also [[Segment]])
#''Mathematics'' A path through 2 or more points that shows no curvature, continues on infinitely and can also be broken down to a simple [[linear]] equation.
#A sentence of [[dialogue]] in a [[script]] or [[screenplay]], or delivered by an [[actor]] or [[performer]]. (''It's a small part, I have 12 '''lines''' in the movie.'' - Geneveve Bujold in ''Earthquake''.)
#The official, stated position of an individual or political faction. (''Remember, your answers must match the party '''line'''.'')
#A [[telephone]] or network connection.  (''I tried to make a call, but the '''line''' is dead.'')
#A [[queue]] of people, cars, etc.  (''The line forms on the right.'')
#A single horizontal [[row]] of [[text]] on a [[CRT]] [[screen]], printed [[paper]], etc.
#A [[rope]], [[cord]], or [[string]].  (''fishing '''line''''', ''anchor '''line''''')
#The [[product]]s or [[service]]s a [[business]] sells. (Also called '''''line''' of business''.)
#(''Fencing'') The position in which the [[fencer]]s hold their [[swords]].  (Also called '''''line''' of engagement''.)
#A written [[letter]].  (Mostly used in the colloquial expression, ''Drop me a '''line'''.'')

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[линия]] ''f'' (1, 2, 5), [[реплика]] ''f'' (3), [[опашка]] ''f'' (6), [[въже]] ''n'' (7), [[позиция]] ''f'' (10)
*Chinese Characters: [[排]]
*Dutch: [[rechte]] ''f'' (1,2), [[lijn]] ''f'' (1,2,4,7), [[aansluiting]] ''f'' (5), [[rij]] ''f'' (6), [[file]] (6), [[vislijn]] ''f'' (8)
*Finnish: [[suora]] (1,2), [[vuorosana]] (3), [[linja]] (4,5), [[kanta]] (4), [[jono]] (6), [[rivi]] (7), [[ala]] (9)
*French: [[droite]] ''f'' (2)
*German: [[Linie]] ''f'' (1,4,9,10), [[Gerade]] ''f'' (2), [[Zeile]] ''f'' (3,7), [[Verbindung]] ''f'' (5), [[Schlange]] ''f'' (6), [[Leine]] ''f'' (8), (ein paar) [[Zeile]]n ''pl., f'' (11)
*Interlingua: [[linea]] (1,2,4,5,6,7,8); [[fila]], [[cauda]] (6); [[littera]] (10)
*{{ga}}: [[líne]]
*Korean: [[줄]] (jul)
*{{pl}}: [[linia]] ''f'' (1,2,5,10), [[lina]] ''f'' (8)
*Portuguese: [[linha]] ''f'' (1,2,4,5,6,7,8,9); ([[linha]]) [[reta]] ''f'' (1,2); [[fala]] ''f'' (3); [[fila]] ''f'' (6); [[carta]] ''f'' (10)
*Swedish: [[linje]] ''c'' (1,2,4,5), [[replik]] ''c'' (3), [[kö]] ''c'' (6),  [[rad]] ''c'' (3,7,11), [[lina]] ''c'' (8)

====Derived words====
:[[line up]] (1)
:[[offline]] (5)
:[[online]] (5)
:[[party line]] (4, 5)
:[[punch line]] (3)

===Transitive verb===
#To [[cover]] the [[inside]] [[surface]] of (something).  (''The bird '''lines''' its nest with soft grass.'')
#(Usually with ''up'') To place (objects) into a line.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[подплатявам]] (1), [[нареждам]] (2)
*Dutch: [[uitlijnen]] (2)
*German: [[auslegen]] (1), [[aufreihen]] (2)
*Interlingua: [[foderar]] (1); [[alinear]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[forrar]] (1); [[alinhar]] (2)
*Swedish: [[fodra]] (1), [[rada upp]] (2)

===Intransitive verb===
#(Usually with ''up'') To form or enter into a line.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[строявам се]]
*Dutch: [[uitlijnen]] (2)
*German: sich [[eingliedern]], sich [[aufreihen]]
*Interlingua: [[alinear]] [[se]]
*Portuguese: [[alinhar]]-[[se]]


===See Also===
*[[Rectangle]]
*[[Segment]]
*[[Square]]
*[[Triangle]]