==English==
===Transitive verb===
'''to love'''

#To have a strong [[affection]] for.
#(''colloquial'') To be strongly inclined towards s.o./doing s.th.; emphasized form of to [[like]]: ''I'd love to join the team.''
#(''sexual'') To [[copulate]], perhaps from [[make love]]: ''I wish I could love to her all night long.''

====Antonyms====
*[[hate]]

====Translations====
*Albanian: [[dashuroj]], [[dua]]
*Breton: [[karet]], ''radical'' kar-
*Catalan: [[estimar]]
*Chinese: [[爱]], [[爱慕]]
*Dutch: [[houden van]], [[beminnen]], [[liefhebben]]
*Ekspreso: [[amer]]
*Esperanto: [[ami]]
*Estonian: [[armastama]]
*Finnish: [[rakastaa]]
*French: [[aimer]]
*Frisian: [[hâlde fan]]
*German: [[lieben]]
*Guarani: [[ayhu]] (ah-)
*Hebrew: [[אהבה]] (A'ha'va)
*Indonesian: [[cinta]], [[kasih]], [[sayang]]
*Interlingua: [[amar]]
*Italian: [[amare]]
*Japanese: [[愛する]] (あいする, aisuru)
*Korean: [[사랑하다]] (saranghada)
*Latin: [[amare]]
*Polish: [[kochać]]
*Portuguese: [[amar]]
*[[Romanica]]: [[amar]]
*Russian: [[любить]]
*Slovene: [[ljubiti]]
*Spanish: [[amar]], [[querer]]
*Swedish: [[älska]]
*Tamil: [[காதலி]] (between man and woman-sexual love)
*Thai: [[รัก]]
*Tupinambá: [[aûsub]] (s-)
*Turkish: [[sevmek]] 
*Vietnamese2020: [[yêu]], [[thương]], [[yêuthương]], [[thươngyêu]], [[áiân]]
*Volapük: [[löfön]]
*Welsh: [[caru]]

===Noun===
'''love'''
#Strong [[affection]].
#Sex life or romantic life.
#A darling or sweetheart.
#(in tennis) Zero.

====Antonyms====
*[[hate]] (1-3)

====Translations====
*Albanian: [[dashuri]] ''f''
*Breton: [[karantez]] ''f''
*Catalan: [[amor]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[爱]], [[爱情]]
*Dutch: [[liefde]] ''f''
*Ekspreso: [[amor]]
*Esperanto: [[amo]]
*Estonian: [[armastus]]
*Finnish: [[rakkaus]], [[lempi]] (''poetic'')
*French: [[amour]] ''m''
*German: [[Liebe]] ''f''
*Greek: [[Αγάπη]] "f" (agapi),[[ Έρωτας]] "m" (erotas). Note: the word love can be translated to either Αγάπη or Έρωτας depending on its actual meaning. The first translation is used when "pure" love is implied (eg mother-child or even the non-erotic aspect of husband-wife). The second is used for erotic love (eg girlfriend-boyfriend).
*Guarani: [[ayhu]] (t-)
*Indonesian: [[cinta]], [[kasih]], [[sayang]]
*Interlingua: [[amor]]
*Italian: [[amore]]
*Japanese: [[愛]] (あい, ai), [[恋]] (こい, koi), [[恋愛]] (れんあい, ren-ai), [[愛情]] (あいじょう, aijou)
*Korean: [[사랑]] (sarang)
*Latin: [[amor]]
*Polish: [[miłość]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[amor]]
*Romanian: [[dragostea]] ''f''
*[[Romanica]]: [[amor]] ''m''
*Russian: [[Любовь]]
*Slovene: [[ljubezen]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[amor]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[kärlek]] ''c''
*Tamil: [[காதல்]] (between man and woman-sexual love), [[அன்பு]], [[பாசம்]]
*Tupinambá: [[aûsuba]] (t-)
*Vietnamese2020: [[tìnhyêu]], [[tìnhái]], [[tìnhthương]], [[tìnhthươngyêu]], [[lòngthương]], [[lòngthươngyêu]], [[tìnháiân]]
*Volapük: [[löf]]
*Welsh: [[cariad]]

===Related terms===
*[[love bug]]
*[[lovebunny]]
*[[lady love]]
*[[love handle]]
*[[love-in-a-mist]]
*[[lovely]]
*[[love-making]]
*[[lover]]
*[[loving kindness]],
*[[loyal love]]
*[[make love]]

=== See also ===
*"[[I love you]]" in various languages