=={{en}}==

===Adjective===
'''lower'''
#[[comparative]] of [[low]]

===Entymology===
{{ang}} ''lowren'', luren; See D. ''loeren'', Late German ''luren''. German ''lauern'' to lurk, to be on the watch, and English ''leer'', ''lurk''.

===Verb===
'''lower''' ([[lowered]], [[lowering]])

[[transitive]]
#To let descend by its own weight, as something suspended; to let down; as, to lower a bucket into a well; to lower a sail or a boat; sometimes, to pull down; as, to lower a flag.
#:'''''Lowered''' softly with a threefold cord of love Down to a silent grave.'' Tennyson.
#To reduce the height of; as, to lower a fence or wall; to lower a chimney or turret.
#To depress as to direction; as, to lower the aim of a gun; to make less elevated as to object; as, to lower one's ambition, aspirations, or hopes.
#To reduce the degree, intensity, strength, etc., of; as, to lower the temperature of anything; to lower one's vitality; to lower distilled liquors.
#To bring down; to humble; as, to lower one's pride.
#To reduce in value, amount, etc. ; as, to lower the price of goods, the rate of interest, etc.

[[intransitive]]

#To fall; to sink; to grow less; to diminish; to decrease; as, the river lowered as rapidly as it rose.
#To be dark, gloomy, and threatening, as clouds; to be covered with dark and threatening clouds, as the sky; to show threatening signs of approach, as a tempest.
#:''All the clouds that '''lowered''' upon our house.'' - Shak.
#To frown; to look sullen.
#:''But sullen discontent sat '''lowering''' on her face.'' - Dryden.