==English==
===Pronunciation===
*/ˈmaʊri/, /"maUri/

===Etymology===
*From ''Maori'' language meaning aborigine, fresh, native, normal, ordinary, or plain.

===Alternative spellings===
*'''Māori''': Prefered usage in maori text. Macrons recommended by Maori Language Commission to indicate long vowel sounds in maori words. Macrons also used in New Zealand English texts with maori related content.
*'''Mäori''': Alternative usage in maori text where macrons not available.
*'''Maaori''': Alternative usage in maori text with limited character sets.

===Adjective===
'''Maori'''

# Of, from, or pertaining to the Maori. 

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[маорски]] ''m'', [[маорска]] ''f'', [[маорско]] ''n'', [[маорски]] ''pl''
*Chinese: [[毛利的]]<!-- isn't "的" a separate particle - not part of a word? -->
*Dutch: Maori
*Finnish: [[maorilainen]]
*French: [[maori]] ''m'', [[maorie]] ''f''
*Maori: [[Māori]]
*[[Persian]]: [[مائوري]] (Mā'ori)
*Portuguese: maori

===Noun===
'''Maori''' ([[Maoris]])<!-- is Maori also its own plural sometimes? -->

# Language of the Maori.
# Member of a people of [[New Zealand]].

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[маори]] ''pl'' (2)
*Chinese: [[毛利语]](1), [[毛利人]](2)
*Dutch: Maori ''n'' (1), ''m/f'' (2)
*Finnish: maori (1,2)
*French: [[maori]] ''m'' (1), [[Maori]] ''m'' (2), [[Maorie]] ''f'' (2)
*Maori: [[Māori]]
*[[Persian]]: [[مائوري]] (Mā'ori)
*Portuguese: maori (1,2)
*Russian: [[маори]] (máori) ''m/f'' (2)

====See also====
*''[[te reo]]''
*[[Wiktionary:Maori_index|Index of maori words]]

=== External links===
*[http://kel.otago.ac.nz/translator/ English-Māori Word Translator(ngā aho whakamāori-ā-tuhi)] from Knowledge Engineering Laboratory of University of Otago.
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Maori-english/ Maori - English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster's Dictionary] - the Rosetta Edition.