==English==
===Etymology===
Middle English '''[[mariage]]''', from Old French '''[[mariage]]''', from '''[[marier]]''' "to marry", from Latin '''[[maritare]]''' "to marry", literally "give a husband to", from '''[[maritus]]''' "married man, husband", derived probably from Proto-Indo-European ''*mari-'', perhaps a feminine stem of ''*mer-yo-'' "young man or young woman" (hence ''*mari-to-'' "given a wife"), if not somehow connected with '''[[mas]]''' "male" (stem ''mar-'').

===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
! !! [[w:IPA|IPA]] !! [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]
|-
! [[GenAm]]
| /ˈmærədʒ/ || <tt>/"m{r@dZ/</tt>
|}

*'''Hyphenation:''' mar·riage

===Noun===
'''marriage'''
# A permanent, legally binding heterosexual union.
# A permanent, publicly committed union between two people.
# A joining of two parts.

===Lexicographical note===

There is considerable controversy over the first two meanings given above, with some insisting that marriage be limited to the first definition, others insisting that it extend to the second.  Thus, both are given separately.  The first is given priority because, whatever its merits, it is both the most widely accepted currently and the first etymologically.  This is meant to imply not that one type of marriage predates the other, but that only recently has the word been widely used in English in the second sense, and even then not as widely as the first.

It is not clear whether a polygamous arrangement constitutes a single marriage or several marriages.  If it may constitute a single marriage, an additional definition is needed.

====See also====
*[[w:Marriage|Marriage]] — Wikipedia
*[[marriageable]]
*[[marry]]
*[[wedding]]
*[[monogamy]]
*[[polygamy]]
*[[polygyny]]
*[[polyandry]]
*[[group marriage]]