===Etymology 1===
See [[mesh]]
====Noun====
#''(Obsolete):'' A mesh
===Etymology 2===
Akin to German ''[[meisch]]'', ''[[maisch]]'', ''[[meischen]]'', ''[[maischen]]'', mash, wash, and probably to Anglo Saxon ''[[miscian]]'' to mix. See [[mix]]
====Noun====
#A mass of mixed ingredients reduced to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; a mass of anything in a soft pulpy state. Specifically (Brewing), ground or bruised malt, or meal of rye, wheat, corn, or other grain (or a mixture of malt and meal) steeped and stirred in hot water for making the wort.
#A mixture of meal or bran and water fed to animals.
#''(Obsolete):'' A mess; trouble - [[Beaumont & Fletcher]]
=====Translations=====
*German: [[Maische]] ''f'' (1, brewing), [[Brei]] ''m'' (1), [[Mus]] ''n'' (1), [[Futterbrei]] ''m'' (2)
=====Derived expression=====
*'''Mash tun''', a large tub used in making mash and wort
====Transitive verb====
Imperfect and past participle: '''Mashed'''<br>
Present participle: '''Mashing'''
#To convert into a mash; to reduce to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; to bruise; to crush; as, to mash apples in a mill, or potatoes with a pestle. Specifically (Brewing), to convert, as malt, or malt and meal, into the mash which makes wort. 
=====Translations=====
*German: [[mischen]], [[zerstampfen]]
*Tok Pisin: [[paitim]]
=====Derived expression=====
*'''Mashing tub''', a tub for making the mash in breweries and distilleries; -- called also [[mash tun]], and [[mash vat]]
*'''mashed potato''' (1960s) a popular dance
*'''mashed potatoes''' plural noun (Originally lower class colloquial from early 1900s) Potatoes which have been boiled and mashed to a pulpy consistency, usu. with sparing addition of milk, salt, butter, or other flavoring. It is a popular accompaniment to a meat course