==English==
===Etymology===
French ''[[masque]]'', Late Latin ''[[masca]]'', ''[[mascha]]'', ''[[mascus]]''; compare Spanish and Portuguese ''[[máscara]]'', Italian ''[[maschera]]'', German ''[[Maske]]''; all from Arabic ''[[maskharat]]'' buffoon, fool, pleasantry, anything ridiculous or mirthful, from ''[[sakhira]]'' to ridicule, to laugh at. Compare [[masque]], [[masquerade]]
===Noun===
#A cover, or partial cover, for the face, used for disguise or protection; as, a dancer's mask; a fencer's mask; a ball player's mask.
#That which disguises; a pretext or subterfuge.
#A festive entertainment of dancing or other diversions, where all wear masks; a masquerade; hence, a revel; a frolic; a delusive show - [[Bacon]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*This thought might lead me through the world's vain '''mask''' -  [[Milton]]
#A dramatic performance, formerly in vogue, in which the actors wore masks and represented mythical or allegorical characters.
#''(Architecture):'' A [[grotesque]] head or face, used to adorn [[keystone]]s and other prominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- called also [[mascaron]].
#''(Fortification)'' In a permanent fortification, a redoubt which protects the caponiere. 
#''(Fortification):'' A screen for a battery
#''(Zoology):'' The lower lip of the larva of a dragon fly, modified so as to form a prehensile organ. 
====Translations====
*{{sv}}: [[mask#Swedish|mask]] (1,2), [[maskerad]] (3)
====Derived expressions====
*'''Mask house''', ''(Obsolete),'' a house for masquerades
===Transitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: '''Masked''' <br>
Present participle: '''Masking'''
#To cover, as the face, by way of concealment or defense against injury; to conceal with a mask or visor.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*They must all be masked and vizarded - Shakespeare, ''Merry Wives of Windsor, IV,vi''
#To disguise; to cover; to hide.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Masking the business from the common eye - Shakespeare, ''Macbeth, III-i''
#''(Military):'' To conceal; also, to intervene in the line of. 
#''(Military):'' To cover or keep in check; as, to mask a body of troops or a fortess by a superior force, while some hostile evolution is being carried out
====Translations====
*{{sv}}: [[maskera]] (1,2,4)
===Intransitive verb===
#To take part as a masker in a masquerade - [[Cavendish]]
#To wear a mask; to be disguised in any way - Shakespeare
----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''mask'''
#[[worm]]
====Conjugations====
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 
| bgcolor=#FFFFF0 colspan=5 align=center | '''Common''' 
|- 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
! rowspan=2 | 
| colspan=2 width=105 | ''Singular'' 
| colspan=2 | ''Plural'' 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''Definite'' 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''Definite'' 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Nominative'' 
| [[mask]] 
| [[maskar]] 
| [[masken]] 
| [[maskarna]] 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Genitive'' 
| [[masks]] 
| [[maskars]] 
| [[maskens]] 
| [[maskarnas]] 
|} 
====See also====
*[[daggmask]]
===Noun===
'''mask'''
#mask; a cover designed to disguise or protect the [[face]]
====Conjugations====
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 
| bgcolor=#FFFFF0 colspan=5 align=center | '''Common''' 
|- 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
! rowspan=2 | 
| colspan=2 width=105 | ''Singular'' 
| colspan=2 | ''Plural'' 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''Definite'' 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''Definite'' 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Nominative'' 
| [[mask]] 
| [[masker]] 
| [[masken]] 
| [[maskerna]] 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Genitive'' 
| [[masks]] 
| [[maskers]] 
| [[maskens]] 
| [[maskernas]] 
|} 
====Derived terms====
*[[maskera]]
*[[maskerad]]
*[[maskering]]
[[it:mask]]
[[pl:Mask]]
[[sv:mask]]