===Etymology===
French ''[[mascarade]]'', from Spanish ''[[mascarada]]'', or Italian ''[[mascherata]]. See [[mask]]
#An assembly of persons wearing masks, and amusing themselves with dancing, conversation, or other diversions.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*In courtly balls and midnight '''masquerades''' - [[Pope]]
#''(Obsolete):'' A dramatic performance by actors in masks; a mask. See [[mask]]
#Acting or living under false pretenses; concealment of something by a false or unreal show; pretentious show; disguise.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That '''masquerade''' of misrepresentation which invariably accompanied the political eloquence of Rome - [[De Quincey]]
#A Spanish diversion on horseback.
===Intransitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle:  '''Masqueraded''' <br>
Present participle: '''Masquerading'''
#To assemble in masks; to take part in a masquerade.
#To frolic or disport in disquise; to make a pretentious show of being what one is not.
A freak took an ass in the head, and he goes into the woods, masquerading up and down in a lion's skin - [[L'Estrange]]
===Transitive verb===
#To conceal with masks; to disguise. To masquerade vice - [[Killingbeck]]
== [[noun]] ==
#a [[party]] where [[guests]] dress up in [[costume]]s or wear masks.
#:''I was invited to the masquerade at their home''.

----  

== [[verb]] ==
#to dress up so as to disguise oneself as for a party.
#:''I'm going to masquarade as the '''wikipede''', what are you going to dress up as''?
#to pretend to be someone or something else than what one really is.
#:''He masqueraded as my friend until the truth finally came out''.

=== Translations ===
*[[Indonesian]]: [[samar|menyamar]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[成りすます]] ([[なりすます]], narisumasu), [[装う]] ([[よそおう]], yosoou)