==English==
'''mega-''' ''or, before a vowel,'' '''meg-'''

===Prefix===
====Pronunciation====

'''me*ga'''
*[[IPA]]: //
*[[SAMPA]]: //
MEH-ga

====Etymology====

Latin, from Greek ''mega'', large, great

#In the [[International System of Units]] and other [[metric]] systems of units, multiplying the [[unit]] to which it is attached by one [[million]].  Symbol: M
#(''Computing'') multiplying the unit to which it is attached by 2<sup>20</sup> (= 1,048,576).  '''Note: Because this meaning is in conflict with the meaning used with other units, the alternative [[megabi]]- has been proposed.'''
#(''also'' '''[[megalo]]-''' ''or, before a vowel,'' '''megal-''') Very large.
#(''informal'') very large or impressive.  (''Also written separately as an adjective; see ''Adjective'' below.'')

====Antonym====

[[micro]]- (1)

====Related words====

*[[megabar]]
*[[megabit]]
*[[megabuck]]
*[[megabyte]] - also used for an ice cream product (''registered trademark?  spelling?'')
*[[megacephalous]]
*[[Megacheiroptera]]
*[[megacity]]
*[[megacurie]]
*[[megacycle]]
*[[mega deal]]
*[[megadeath]]
*[[megadose]]
*[[megadyne]]
*[[mega energy]]
*[[megafarad]]
*[[megafauna]]
*[[megaflora]]
*[[megaflop]]
*[[megafog]]
*[[megagauss]]
*[[megagram]], [[megagramme]]
*[[megaherbivore]]
*[[megahertz]]
*[[mega high]]
*[[megajoule]]
*[[megalith]]
*[[megalitre]], [[megaliter]]
*[[mega low]]
*[[mega market]]
*[[mega-mart]]
*[[mega meal]] (''registered trademark?  spelling?''), used by [[en:Kentucky Fried Chicken|KFC]]
*[[mega-merger]]
*[[megametre]], [[megameter]]
*[[mega moolah]], term used by the [[en:Fox Box|Fox Box]], formerly [[en:Fox Kids|Fox Kids]]
*[[mega morning]]
*[[mega movie]]
*[[meganewton]]
*[[mega party]]
*[[megaparsec]]
*[[megapode]]
*[[mega power]]
*[[megarad]]
*[[mega road]]
*[[megascope]]
*[[mega-selection]]
*[[mega speed]]
*[[megaspeed]]
*[[megasporangium]]
*[[megaspore]]
*[[megasporophyll]]
*[[megastar]]
*[[megastore]]
*[[megastructure]]
*[[megatechnology]]
*[[Megatherium]]
*[[megaton]]
*[[megavertebrate]]
*[[megavitamin]]
*[[megavolt]]
*[[megawatt]]
*[[mega wide]]
*[[megaword]], first used by [[en:Wheel of Fortune|Wheel of Fortune]] game show.
*[[mega world]]
*[[megohm]]

====Translations====
*Arabic:
*Basque:
*Catalan:
*Danish:
*Dutch:
*Esperanto:
*Finnish:
*French: [[m&eacute;ga]]-
*Frisian:
*German:
*Greek: [[ ]] (m&eacute;ga-)
*Hebrew:
*Hindi:
*Hungarian:
*Interlingua:
*Irish:
*Italian: mega-
*Japanese:
*Korean:
*Latin: mega-
*Mandarin:
*Norwegian:
*Polish:
*Portuguese: mega-
*Romanian:
*Scottish:
*Spanish: mega-
*Swedish:
*Taiwanese:
*Ukrainian:
*Urdu:
*Vietnamese:

===Adjective===
'''mega'''

#(''informal'') Very large.
#(''informall'') Impressive.

====Translations====