== Merismus ==
 (pronounced mer-EES-mus, is mainly extracted from: [http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-mer1.htm]

'''Merismus'''  is a term used in rhetoric to describe a type of [[synecdoche]] (see below for synedoche) in which two parts of a thing, perhaps contrasting or complementary parts, are made to stand for the whole. The term was generally used around in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, but then seems to have fallen into disuse, only being revived in the middle of the twentieth century by English grammaratists and poets. It comes from the ancient Greek ''merismos'', "a division", derived from the Greek verb ''merizein'', which means basically “to divide”.

Merismus is similar to “partition”, which of course is the division of a whole into its parts; (and contrasts with “[[diaeresis]]”, which is the division of a genus into its various species.)
These next notes are from right here in Wikipedia, the great free encyclopedia.

[[Synecdoche]] (pronounced sin-EK-duh-kee) is a kind of metonymy in which:
A part of something is used for the whole,
The whole is used for a part,
The species is used for the genus,
The genus is used for the species, or
The stuff of which something is made is used for the thing.

Some common examples of synecdoche:
A part of something is used for the whole 
"hands" to refer to workers, "head" for cattle, "threads" for clothing, "wheels" for "car", "mouths to feed" for hungry people

The whole is used for a part 
"the police" for a handful of officers, the "smiling year" for "spring", "the Pentagon" for the top generals in the Pentagon building

The species is used for the genus 
"cutthroat" for "assassin", "kleenex" for facial tissue, "castle" for "home"

The genus is used for the species 
"creature" for "person", "personal computer" for "IBM-compatible personal computer"

The stuff of which something is made is used for the thing 
"hickory" for "baseball bat", "copper" for "penny", "boards" for "stage", "ivories" for piano keys, "plastic" for "credit card"

[[Synecdoche]], as well as other forms of [[metonymy]], is one of the most common ways to characterize a fictional character. Frequently, someone will be consistently described by a single body part or feature, such as the eyes, which comes to represent their person.

Also, sonnets and other forms of love poetry frequently use synecdoches to characterize the beloved in terms of individual body parts rather than a whole, coherent self.