==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[Wiktionary:Pronunciation_key|IPA]]: /m??f/
*[[Wiktionary:Pronunciation_key|SAMPA]]: /<tt>mI5f</tt>/

===Noun===
'''MILF'''
# ''(acronym)'' (''slang, vulgar'') A [[mother]] found sexually attractive; stands for '''''M'''other '''I''''d '''l'''ike to '''f'''uck''. 
 second definition is: "Mother I'd Like (to) Fuck"
mothers, whether married, separated or divorced, that a male individual sees as physical attractive enough to want to have sexual intercourse with them. Just cuz their moms doesn't mean that they don't need a spark in their love life. If they've ever breastfed,they have really responsive nipples and a core of erectile tissue in their breasts. The ones in good shape have worked at regaining control over their vaginas (Kegel exercises).MILFs are usually real careful about birth control, they know accidents happen but they take responsible steps. They want to fuck with abandon, with no romantic complications for their under-19 family.
A MILF is any mother that is sexually desirable. 
#:''Tom's mother is hot &mdash; she's a real '''MILF'''.''
#*'''Etymological note:''' [[popularise|Popularised]] by the [[film]] ''[[w:American Pie_(movie)|American Pie]]'' (1999).
# ''(initialism)''<!--acronym?--> '''M'''oro '''I'''slamic '''L'''iberation '''F'''ront, a terrorist organization in the Philippines seeking to establish an Islamic state on the island of Mindanao. Distinctly different from the [[MNLF]] or Moro National Liberation Front which, though has a similar goal, is composed of different leaders.