==English==
===Pronunciation===
*mĭl, /mɪl/, /<tt>mIl</tt>/

====Homophones====
*[[mil]]

===Etymology===
===Noun===
'''mill''' (''plural'' '''[[mills]]''')

#A manufacturing plant for paper, steel, textiles, etc.
#A building housing such a plant.
#A grinding machine for substances such as flour, [[vegoil]], etc.
#An establishment that handles a certain type of situation routinely, such as a divorce mill, etc.

====Synonyms====
*(''plant, building''): [[factory]], [[works]]

====Derived terms====
*[[miller]]
*[[millhouse]]
*[[milling]]
*[[rumor mill]], [[rumour mill]]
*[[windmill]]

==== Translations ====

'''manufacturing plant'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[fabriek]] ''f'' (''general''), [[papierfabriek]] ''f'' (''for paper''), [[staalfabriek]] (''for steel'') [[textielfabriek]] (''for textiles'')
*French: [[usine]] ''f''
*German: [[Fabrik]] ''f'' (''general''), [[Werk]] ''n'' (''general'') [[Papiermühle]] (''for paper'')
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[fabryka]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[fabrica]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''building'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[fabriek]] ''f'' (''general''), [[papierfabriek]] ''f'' (''for paper''), [[staalfabriek]] (''for steel'') [[textielfabriek]] (''for textiles'')
*French: [[usine]] ''f''
*German: [[Fabrik]] ''f'' (''general''), [[Werk]] ''n'' (''general'') [[Papiermühle]] (''for paper'')
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[fabryka]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[fabrica]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''grinding machine'''
{{top}}
*French: [[moulin]] ''m''
*German: [[Mühle]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[mulino]] ''m''
*Polish: [[młyn]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[molino]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''establishment that handles a certain type of situation routinely'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Dutch: [[molen]] ''m'' (3)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[fabrica]], [[molino]]
*[[Kashubian]]: [[młin]] ''m'' (3)
*Norwegian: [[mølle]]
*Portuguese: [[engenho]] ''m'', [[moinho]] ''m'', [[fábrica]] ''f''

===Etymology===
===Noun===
'''mill''' (''plural'' '''[[mills]]''')

#An obsolete coin with value one-thousandth of a dollar.

====Translations====

'''coin'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|mill||}}

#To [[grind]] or otherwise process in a mill or other machine.
#:''to mill flour''
#To [[shape]], [[polish]], [[dress]] or [[finish]] using a machine.
#To [[engrave]] one or more [[groove]]s or a pattern around the edge of (a [[cylindrical]] object such as a coin).

====Translations====

'''grind or process using a mill or other machine'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''shape, polish, etc, using a machine'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''engrave groove around the edge of'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
#(''followed by'' '''around''', '''about''', ''etc.'') To move about in an [[aimless]] fashion.

====Synonyms====
*(''move about in an aimless fashion''): [[roam]], [[wander]]

====Translations====

'''move about in an aimless fashion'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[io:Mill]]
[[it:mill]]