{{Wikipedia}}
===Noun===
'''mint'''

# A plant of the family ''Labiatae''.
# The flavouring of the plant, either a sweet, a jelly or sauce.
# A building or institution where money (originally just coins) is produced under government licence.
# A large amount of money (''worth a mint'').
#(colour) a green colour, like that of mint.

====Translations====
*Catalan: [[menta]] ''f'' (1), [[dinerada]] ''f'' (3), [[dineral]] ''m'' (3)
*Esperanto: [[mento]] (1)
*Finnish: [[minttu]] (1, 2), [[rahapaja]] (3), [[omaisuus]] (4), [[summa]] (4)
*French: [[menthe]] ''f'' (1)
*Slovene: [[meta]] ''f'' (1), [[kovnica]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[menta]] ''f'' (1), [[dineral]] ''m'' (3), [[fortuna]] ''f'' (3)
*Swedish: [[mynta]] ''c'' (1, 2)

===Adjective===
'''mint'''

# In good condition (''in mint condition'').
# (slang) Very good (''that's mint'').
# ([[numismatics]]) In near-perfect condition.
# (Philately) Unused with original gum. As issued originally.
#(colour) of a green colour, like that of mint.
====Translations====
*Dutch: [[munt]] ''m'' (1,2), [[fortuin]] ''n'' (3)
*Dutch: [[ongeschonden]]
*Finnish: [[virheetön]] (1, 3)
*French: [[impeccable]] (1)
*Romanian: [[mentă]] ''f'' (1)
*Spanish: [[menta]] ''f'' (1)

===Verb===
'''to mint''' ([[minted]])

# (Of coins) To reproduce, usually en masse, under licence.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[munten]]
*Finnish: [[lyödä]] (''rahaa'', ''kolikoita'') (1)
*Romanian: [[bate monedă]], [[emite]]
*Slovene: [[kovati denar]]
*Swedish: [[mynta]] (1)

===Related terms/Derived terms===
*[[calamint]]
*[[dragonhead]]
*[[horsemint]]
*[[menthol]]
*[[mintage]]
*[[minted]]
*[[mint-flavored]], [[mint-flavoured]]
*[[mint julep]]
*[[minty]]
*[[peppermint]]
*[[spearmint]]
*[[stone mint]]
*[[water mint]]

[[Category:English colors]]

[[it:mint]]
[[hu:mint]]