==English==
===Transitive verb===
'''to mix''' (mixing, mixed)

# To stir two or more substances together.
#: ''Mix the eggs and milk with the flour until the consistency is smooth.''
# To combine items from two or more sources normally kept separate.
#: ''Don't mix the meat recipes with the dairy recipes.''
# (''music'') To combine several tracks.
#: ''I'll mix the rhythm tracks down to a single track.''
# (''music'') To produce a finished version of a recording.
#: ''I'm almost done mixing this song.''

====Synonyms====
*(''stir two or more substances together''): [[blend]], [[combine]], [[intermix]], [[mix together]], [[mix up]]
*(''combine items from two or more sources normally kept separate''): [[mix together]], [[mix up]], [[muddle]], [[muddle up]]

====Translations====

'''stir two or more substances together'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[mélanger]]
*Italian: [[mischiare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''combine items from two or more sources normally kept separate'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''music: combine several tracks'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[mixer#French|mixer]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''music: produce a finished version of a recording'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Noun===
'''mix''' (''plural'' '''mixes''')

# The result of mixing two or more substances.
#: ''Now add the raisins to the mix.''
# The result of combining items normally kept separate.
#: ''My recipe file was now a mix of meat and dairy.''
# (''music'') The result of mixing several tracks.
#: ''The rhythm mix sounds muddy.''
# (''music'') The finished version of a recording.
#: ''I've almost finished the mix for this song.''

====Translations====

'''result of mixing two or more substances'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[mélange]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''result of combining items normally kept separate'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''music: result of mixing several tracks'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''music: finished version of a recording'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[dance mix]]
*[[dub mix]]
*[[into the mix]]
*[[mix and match]]
*[[mixed]]
*[[mixer]]
*[[mix up]] (''verb'')
*[[mix-up]], [[mixup]] (''noun'')
*[[pick 'n' mix]]
*[[remix]]