==English==
===Etymology===
From Latin [[modellus]], diminutive form of Latin [[modulus]] (small measure).
===Noun===
'''model'''
#A person who serves as a subject for artwork or fashion, usually in the [[medium]] of photography but also for painting or drawing.
#:''The beautiful model had her face on the cover of almost every fashion magazine imaginable.''
#A miniature representation of.
#:''The boy played with a model of a World War II fighter plane.''
#A simplified representation (usually mathematical) used to explain the workings of a [[real world]] system or event.
#:''The computer weather model did not correctly predict the path of the hurricane.''
#A style, type, or design.
#:''He decided to buy the turbo engine model of the sports car.''
====See also====
*[[supermodel]]
===Adjective===
'''model'''
#Serving as an example of something.
#:''The couple inspected the model home with a [[real estate]] [[agent]].''
#Worthy of being a model; [[exemplary]].
#:''He was a model student.''
#Being a small copy of something.
#:''model airplane.''
====Synonym====
*[[ideal]]
===Verb===
'''models''' ([[modeled]] or [[modelled]])
#To display an object for others to see, especially in regard to wearing clothing while performing the role of a fashion model.
#:''She modeled the shoes for her friends to see.''
#To use as an object in the creation of a [[forecast]] or model.
#:''They modeled the data with a computer to analyze the experiment's results.''
#To make a miniature model of.
#:''He takes great pride in his skill at modeling airplanes.''
#To create from a substance such as clay.
''The sculptor modeled the clay into the form of a dolphin.''
#To be a model.
''The [[actress]] used to model before being discovered by [[Hollywood]].''
===Related words===
*[[modeler]]