==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'mɔʊdəm/

=== Etymology ===
:Abbreviation for '''mod'''ulator '''dem'''odulator.

=== Noun ===
'''modem''', plural '''[[modems]]'''

#A device that encodes digital [[computer]] signals into analog [[telephone]] signals and vice-versa.  It allows computers to communicate over a phone line.

==== Translations ====
*Chinese (simplified): [[调制解调器]] tiao2zhi4 jie3tiao2qi4
*Dutch: [[modem#Dutch|modem]] ''m, n''
*Esperanto: [[modemo]]
*Finnish: [[modeemi]]
*French: [[modem#French|modem]] ''m''
*Polish: modem ''m''
*Spanish: [[modem#Spanish|modem]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[modem#Swedish|modem]] ''n''
*Vietnamese: [[modem#Vietnamese|modem]]

===Related Terms===
*[[demodulator]]
*[[mode]]
*[[modulator]]
*[[modulate]]
*[[modulation]]
*[[module]]


----

==Dutch==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'moːdəm/

=== Etymology ===
:From English ''[[modem#English|modem]]'', abbreviation for '''mod'''ulator '''dem'''odulator.

=== Noun ===
'''modem''' ''m, n'' (plural: [[modems]], diminutive: [[modempje]])

# Modem; a device that encodes digital [[computer]] signals into analog [[telephone]] signals and vice-versa.  It allows computers to communicate over a phone line.


----

==French==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /mo'dɛm/

=== Etymology ===
:From English ''[[modem#English|modem]]'', abbreviation for '''mod'''ulator '''dem'''odulator.

=== Noun ===
'''modem''' ''m''

#A device that encodes digital [[computer]] signals into analog [[telephone]] signals and vice-versa.  It allows computers to communicate over a phone line.


----

==Spanish==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'moðem/

=== Etymology ===
:From English ''[[modem#English|modem]]'', abbreviation for '''mod'''ulator '''dem'''odulator.

=== Noun ===
'''modem''' ''m''

# Modem; a device that encodes digital [[computer]] signals into analog [[telephone]] signals and vice-versa.  It allows computers to communicate over a phone line.

----
==Swedish==
<!---=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: --->

=== Etymology ===
:From English ''[[modem#English|modem]]'', abbreviation for '''mod'''ulator '''dem'''odulator.

=== Noun ===
'''modem''' ''n'' (''pl'' modem, ''def sing'' [[modemet]], ''def pl'' [[modemen]])

# Modem; a device that encodes digital [[computer]] signals into analog [[telephone]] signals and vice-versa.  It allows computers to communicate over a phone line.


----
==Vietnamese==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'modem/
*Vietnamese transliteration: mô-đêm

=== Etymology ===
:From [[English]] ''[[modem#English|modem]]'', abbreviation for '''mod'''ulator '''dem'''odulator.

=== Noun ===
'''modem''' ''m''

# Modem; a device that encodes digital [[computer]] signals into analog [[telephone]] signals and vice-versa.  It allows computers to communicate over a phone line.


[[nl:modem]]
[[fi:modem]]
[[fr:modem]]
[[pl:modem]]
[[es:modem]]
[[vi:modem]]
[[ms:modem]]