==Pronunciation==
IPA: ˈmʌn.i

The medium of exchange by which things are bought and sold in a non-[[barter]] society. Before the widespread use of paper money, money was usually made out of precious elements such as gold, platinum and silver. In a modern society money can be paper not even based on precious metals. Increasingly, most societies are slowly migrating away from even paper and towards binary values stored in databases.

Money is a promise recorded as banknote, coinage. or electronic memo. British banknotes promise to pay on demand so many pounds sterling at their head office. Other countries state the value and currency.
 Money is the token of effort. People are paid to work.
Money is the gambling token used by Banks, business, insurance companies and stock exchanges.
Money is the token of exchange in trade and replaces barter.

==[[Noun]]==

#Some currency.
#Hard [[cash]], as opposed to cheques or credit cards.
#Assets such as houses or cars which show you have money.
#Richness, rich people-particularly those who didn't inherit it.
#A person who funds an operation.

===Translations===

*[[Basque]]: [[diru]]
*[[Chinese]]: [[钱]], [[錢]] (qián)
*[[Dutch]]: [[geld]] ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[mono]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[raha]]
*[[French]]: [[argent]], [[monnaie]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[jild]] ''n''
*[[German]]: [[Geld]] ''f''
*Greek: [[χρήματα]] ''n pl''
*[[Guarani]]: [[pirapire]]
*[[Hebrew]]: [[כסף]] ''m''
*[[Indonesian]]: [[uang]], [[duit]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[moneta]], [[pecunia]], [[denario]]
*[[Italian]]: [[moneta]] ''f'', [[denaro]] ''m'', [[soldi]] ''m pl''
*[[Japanese]]: [[お金]] ([[おかね]], okane), [[金]] ([[かね]], kane)
*[[Korean]]: [[돈]] (don)
*[[Polish]]: [[pieniądze]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[dinheiro]] ''m''
*[[Romanian]]: [[bani]] ''m'' ''pl''
*[[Romanica]]: [[moneta]] ''f'', [[pecunia]] ''f'', [[denario]] ''m''
*[[Russian]]: [[деньги]] ''pl''
*[[Slovene]]: [[denar]] ''m''
*[[Spanish]]: [[dinero]] ''m''
*[[Swedish]]: [[pengar]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[mon]]
*[[Welsh]]: [[arian]] ''m''

==Adjective==

[[Economic]], economical.
[[Monetary]]