==English==
===Etymology===
Originally from ''[[Mongol]]'' + ''[[-ian]]'', a translation of the [[German]] ''mongalisch'' (1706). Subsequently, from the name of the country of ''[[Mongolia]]'' + ''[[-an]]''.

===Adjective===
'''Mongolian'''

# Of or relating to [[Mongolia]] or its [[people]]s, [[language]]s, or [[culture]]s = [[Mongol]].
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* '''1706''' - Evert Y. Ides: ''Three years travels from Moscow over-land to China''...
<!--Done originally by a Chinese author, with additions by the above author. Originally printed in German, and translated to English by the same author.-->
#:*: He had a Sister, which according to the Mongalian custom lived in the devoted spiritual state.
#:* '''1878''' - ''Encyclopedia Britannica'', ninth edition, volume XVI
#:*: The Mongolian characters...are written perpendicularly from above downward.
#:* '''1985''' - Robert Whelan: ''Robert Capa: A Biography''
#:*: He usually had a heavy growth of dark stubble that made him look...rather like a Mongolian bandit.
# ''Anthropology''. Resembling or having some of the characteristic physical features of the [[Mongoloid]] racial type = [[Mongoloid]].
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* '''1828''' - John Stark: ''Elements of natural history''
#:*: The Mongolian variety inhabits eastern Asia, Finland, and Lapland in Europe, and includes the Esquimaux of North America.
#:* '''1834''' - ''Penny cyclopædia of the Society for the diffusion of useful knowledge'', volume II
#:*: The white (or Caucasian), the yellow (or Mongolian), and the black (or Ethiopian)
#:* '''1990''' - Louis de Berni&egrave;res: ''The War of Don Emmanuel's Nether Parts
#:*: It was not so much their Mongolian features that impressed everyone...
# ''Now rare and offensive''. Designating or affected with [[Down syndrome]] = [[Mongol]].
#: '''Spelling''': Also '''mongolian'''.
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* '''1866''' - John Langdon Haydon Down in ''Clinical lectures and reports by the medical and surgical staff of the London Hospital'', volume II
#:*: The Mongolian type of idiocy occurs in more than ten per cent. of the cases which are presented to me.
#:* '''1965''' - H. Eldon Sutton: ''An introduction to human genetics''
#:*: The condition known as trisomy 21 syndrome or mongolian idiocy (sometimes referred to as Down's syndrome) had long been an enigma.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[монголски]] ''m'', ''pl''
*Chinese: [[蒙古的]]
*Estonian: [[Mongoolia]] (sense 1), [[Mongooliast]] (''from Mongolia''), [[mongolikeelne]] (''in the Mongolian language''), [[mongolite]] (2), [[mongoli]] (2, ''of the Mongolian language'')
*French: [[mongol]]
*German: [[mongolisch]]
*Hungarian: [[mongol]]
*Polish: [[mongolski]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[mongol]]

===Noun===
'''Mongolian'''

#A [[native]] or [[inhabitant]] of [[Mongolia]] = [[Mongol]].
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* '''1757''' - John Dyer: ''The fleece, a poem'' (1807)
#:*:The Cossac there, The Calmuc, and Mungalian, round the bales In crowds resort.
#:* '''1763''' - John Bell: ''A journey from St. Petersburg to Pekin''
#:*: This day we saw some scattered tents of Mongalians, with their flocks.
#:* '''1854''' - Robert G. Latham in ''Orr's Circle of the sciences: Organic nature''
#:*: The Mongolians are the most nomadic of populations.
#:* '''1990''' - ''New Scientist'', September 1
#:*: Mongolians now regard animal husbandry as a low-status occupation.
#A group of [[Altaic]] [[languages]] from [[Mongolia]], specifically [[Khalkha]], the official language of [[Mongolia]].
#: '''Quotations'''
#:* '''1926''' - Neville J. Whymant: ''A Mongolian Grammar''
#:*: The Khalka...Mongolian possesses seven vowels and twenty consonants.
#:* '''1987''' - David Crystal: ''The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language''
#:*: The Altaic family...comprises about 40 languages, classified into three groups: Turkic, Mongolian, and Manchu-Tungus.
#:* '''1990''' - ''Orientations'', April
#:*: These inscriptions are in Mongolian and thus widen the appliqu&eacute;'s international connections.
#A person of [[Mongoloid]] physical type = [[Mongoloid]].
#:* '''1823''' - ''North American Revolution'', July
#:*: A particular individual which the latter considered a Mongolian and the former assures us is an Ethiopian.
#:* '''1938''' - Franz Boas, et al.: ''General Anthropology''
#:*: Extreme forms like the Australians, Negroes, Mongolians, and Europeans may be described as races because each has certain characteristics which set them off from other groups, and which are strictly hereditary.
#:* '''1988''' - ''Current Anthropology'', volume 29
#:*: The thesis of this work was that native Americans were one race distinct from Eskimos and Mongolians.

===Translations===
*Bulgarian: [[монголец]] ''m'', [[монголка]] ''f'', [[Монголски]]
*Chinese: [[蒙古人]], [[蒙古语]]
*Estonian: [[mongol]] (sense 3), [[mongoollane]] (sense 1), [[mongoli keel]] 
*French: [[Mongol]]
*German: [[Mongole]] ''m'', [[Mongolin]] ''f'', [[Mongolisch]]
*Hungarian: [[mongol]]
*Italian: [[mongolico]], [[mongolo]] ''m'', [[mongolica]], [[mongola]] ''f''
*Japanese:' [[モンゴル人]]; [[モンゴル語]], [[蒙古語]]
*Polish: [[Mongoł]] ''m'', [[Mongołka]] ''f'', [[Mongolski]]
*Spanish: [[mongol]]
*Afrikaans: [[Mongools]]
*Arabic: [[منغولية]]
*Azeri: [[Монгол]]
*Armenian: [[Մոնղոլական]]
*Basque: [[Mongoliera]]
*Belorussian: [[Мангольская]]
*Catalan: [[Mongol]], [[Mogol]]
*Croation: [[Mongolski]]
*Czech: [[Mongolský]]
*Danish: [[Mongolsk]]
*Farsi: [[مغولى]]
*Finnish: [[mongoli]]
*Greek: [[Μογγολικά]]
*Hebrew: [[מונגולית]]
*Icelandic: [[Mongólsk mál]], [[Mongólska]]
*Indonesian: [[Mongolia]]
*Irish: [[Mongóilis]]
*Korean: [[몽골어]]
*Latvian: [[Mongoļu]]
*Lithuanian: [[Mongoliškai]]
*Malay: [[Bahasa Mongolia]], [[Mongol]]
*Maltese: [[Mongoljan]]
*Moksha: [[Монголань]]
*Mongolian: [[Монгол]]
*Norwegian: [[Mongolsk]]
*Portuguese: [[Mongol]]
*Romanian: [[Mongolă]]
*Russian: [[Монгольский]]
*Serbian: [[Монголски]]
*Swahili: [[Kimongolia]]
*Swedish: [[Mongoliska]]
*Tagalog: [[Monggolian]]
*Thai: [[ภาษามองโกเลีย]]
*Turkish: [[Moğolca]]
*Ukrainian: [[Монгольський]]
*Vietnamese: [[Tiếng Mông-cổ]]
*Walloon: [[Mongol]]

==Related terms==
*[[Mongol]]
*[[Mongolia]]
*[[Mongoloid]]

==Derived terms==
*[[Mongolian gerbil]]
*[[Mongolian lamb]]
*[[Mongolian pheasant]]
*[[Mongolian spot]]

==More information==
*[[w:Mongol|Wikipedia article on Mongolians (Mongols)]]
*[[w:Mongolian language|Wikipedia article on the Mongolian language]]

==External links==
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Mongolian-english/ Mongolian-English Dictionary]
[[nl:Mongolian]]