==English==
===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /mʊɹ/

===Etymology 1===
From the French [[More]], [[Maure]]; from the Latin [[Maurus a Moor]], meaning a Mauritanian, an inhabitant of Mauritania.  ''Webster1913 also says: <B>Gr. ?; cf. ? black, dark. Cf. {Morris} a dance, {Morocco}</B> but I don't know what that means so I can't adapt it.'''

====Proper Noun====
'''Moor'''
#  One of a mixed race inhabiting Morocco, Algeria, Tunis, and Tripoli, chiefly along the coast and in towns.
#  (Hist.) Any individual of the swarthy races of Africa or Asia which have adopted the Mohammedan religion.

=====Translations=====
*Dutch: [[moren]]<!-- chg to sing. -->
*[[Esperanto]]: [[Maŭroj]]
*Estonian: [[maur]], [[moorlane]]
*French: [[Maures]]<!-- chg to sing. -->
*German: [[Maure]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[Mauri]]<!-- chg to sing. -->
*Russian: [[Мавры]] (Mavri)<!-- chg to sing. -->
*Slovenian: [[Mavri]]<!-- chg to sing? -->
*Spanish: [[Moro]]

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[mor]], AS. [[mör]] [[moor]], [[morass]]; akin to D. [[moer]] [[moor]], G. [[moor]], and probably to Goth. [[marei sea]], E. [[mere]]. See [[Mere]] a lake.

====Noun====
'''moor'''
# An extensive waste covered with patches of heath, and  having a poor, light soil, but sometimes marshy, and  abounding in peat; a heath.
# A game preserve consisting of moorland.

=====Translations=====
*Estonian: [[raba]] (1)
*German: [[Moor]] ''n'' (1)


===Etymology 3===
imp. & p. p. [[Moored]]; p. pr. & vb. n. [[Mooring]].<BR>
Prob. fr. D. [[marren]] to tie, fasten, or moor a ship. See [[Mar]].

====Verb====
'''to moor'''
#''(intransitive)'' To [[cast]] [[anchor]] or become [[fasten]]ed.
#''(transitive)'' (''Nautical'') To fix or secure, as a vessel, in a particular  place by casting anchor, or by fastening with cables or chains; as, ''the vessel was moored in the stream''; ''they  moored the boat to the wharf''.
#''(transitive)'' To [[secure]], or [[fix]] [[firm]]ly.

=====Translations=====
*Estonian: [[silduma]], [[otsi kinnitama]]

==Estonian==
[[Category:Estonian language]]
===Noun===
'''moor'''
# [[grimalkin]]


[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[de:Moor]]
[[fr:Moor]]
[[fi:Moor]]