==English==
===Noun===
'''nail''' ([[nails]])

#The thin, horny plate at the ends of fingers and toes on humans and some other animals.
#A [[spike]]-shaped metal [[fastener]] used for joining [[wood]] or similar materials.  The ''nail'' is generally driven through two or more layers of [[material]] by means of impacts from a [[hammer]] or other device.  It is then held in place by [[friction]].

====Derived terms====
*[[nail file]], [[nail-file]], [[nailfile]]
*[[nail polish]]
*[[fingernail]]
*[[toenail]]

====Translations====
*[[Breton]]: [[ivin]] ''m'' -où ''pl'' (1), [[tach]] ''m'' -où ''pl'' (2)
*Dutch: [[nagel]] ''m'' (1,2), [[spijker]] (2)
*Finnish: [[kynsi]] (1), [[naula]] (2)
*French: [[ongle]] ''m'' (1), [[clou]] ''m'' (2)
*German: [[Nagel]] ''m'', [[Nägel]] ''pl'' (1,2), [[Stift]] ''m'' -e ''pl'' (2)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[ungula]] (1); [[clavo]] (2)
*Italian: [[unghia]] ''f'' (1), [[chiodo]] ''m'' (2)
*Polish: [[paznokieć]] ''m'' (1), [[gwóźdź]] ''m'' (2)
*Portuguese: [[unha]] ''f'' (1); [[prego]] ''m'' (2)
*Russian: [[ноготь]] ''m'' (nógot') (1); [[гвоздь]] ''m'' (gvozd') (2)
*Spanish: [[uña]] ''f'' (1), [[clavo]] ''m'' (2)
*Swedish: [[nagel]] ''c'' (1), [[spik]] ''c'' (2)
*[[Tagalog]]: [[kuko]] (1) [[pako]] (2)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[kapa]] [[bilong]] [[pinga]] (1)

====See also====
*[[claw]]
*[[talon]]

===Verb===
'''nail''' ([[nails]], [[nailed]], [[nailing]])

#employ a nail as a fastener to join [[objects]] together.
#(''slang'') [[catch]].
#(''slang'') expose as a [[sham]].
#(''slang'') [[accomplish]] something completely.  ''I really '''nailed''' that test.''
#(''slang'') [[hit]] a [[target]] effectively with some [[weapon]].
#(''slang'') engage in sexual [[intercourse]].

====Translations====
*[[Breton]]: [[tachañ]] (1)
*Dutch: [[nagelen]] (1), [inkloppen]] (1), [[vastpinnen]] (2), [[slagen]] voor (4)
*Finnish: [[naulata]] (1)
*French: [[clouer]] (1), [[choper]] (2)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[clavar]] (1)
*Italian: [[inchiodare]] (1, 2)
*Polish: [[wbijać]] gwóźdź (1)
*Portuguese: [[pregar]] (1)
*Swedish: [[spika]] (1,3)

===Reform===
*Proposal:  "Nail" is to be used only to mean "The thin, horny plate at the ends of fingers and toes on humans and some other animals."
*Why?  Homophones are undesirable and confusing to people learning English.  
*Replacement:  "A [[spike]]-shaped metal [[fastener]] used for joining [[wood]] or similar materials." is to be renamed as "spike."
*Dissent:  "Nail" is a commonly used word in English.

====Examples====
*Go and buy a bag of spikes at the hardware store. (noun)
*Use a hammer to spike those pieces of wood together. (verb)

====[[w:Basic_english | Basic English 850]]==== 
*nail (noun)
*nail (verb)

===See also===
*[[w:Nail|Wikipedia disambiguation page on both meanings of nail]]
*[[w:Spike|Wikipedia disambiguation page on spike]]