==English==
===Etymology===
Latin, from ''[[ne]]'' not + ''[[uter]]'' whether; akin to English [[whether]]. See [[no]], and whether, and compare [[neither]].

===Adjective===
#(''archaic''): Neither the one thing nor the other; on neither side; impartial; neutral.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*In all our undertakings God will be either our friend or our enemy; for Providence never stands '''neuter''' — [[South]]
#{{Grammar}}: Having a form belonging more especially to words which are not appellations of males or females; expressing or designating that which is of neither sex; as, a neuter noun; a neuter termination; the neuter gender.
#{{Grammar}}: Intransitive; as, a neuter verb.
#{{Biology}}: Having no generative organs, or imperfectly developed ones; sexless.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[neutri]]- (2,4, ''in compounds''), [[intransitiivinen]] (3)
*German: [[sächlich]] (2), [[intransitiv]] (3), [[geschlechtslos]] (4)
*Greek: [[ουδέτερος]] (oudéteros) [[:el:ουδέτερος|el]]
*Russian: [[средний]] (srédnij) (2), [[бесполный]] (bespólnyj) (4)
*Spanish: [[neutro]] (2)
*Swedish: [[neutral]] (2)

===Noun===
#A person who takes no part in a contest; one who is either indifferent to a cause or forbears to interfere; a neutral.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The world’s no '''neuter'''; it will wound or save — [[Young]]
#{{Grammar}}: A noun of the neuter gender; any one of those words which have the terminations usually found in neuter words.
#{{Grammar}}: An intransitive verb.
#{{Biology}}: An organism, either vegetable or animal, which at its maturity has no [[generative]] [[organ]]s, or but imperfectly developed ones, as a plant without [[stamen]]s or [[pistil]]s, as the garden [[Hydrangea]]; especially, one of the imperfectly developed females of certain social insects, as of the ant and the common honeybee, which perform the labors of the community, and are called workers.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[neutraali]] (1), [[neutri]] (2, 4), [[puolueeton]] (1), [[intransitiiviverbi]] (3),
*German: [[Neutrum]] ''n'' (2), [[Intransitivum]] ''n'' (3)
*Greek: [[ουδέτερον γένος]] (oudéteron génos) ''n'' (2)
*Japanese: [[中性]] (ちゅうせい, chūsei)
*Russian: [[средний род]] (srédnij rod) (2)
*Swedish: [[neutrum]] (2)

===Verb===
'''to neuter''' ([[neuters]], [[neutered]], [[neutering]])

#To [[castrate]] or [[spay]], particularly as applied to domestic animals.

====Synonyms====
*[[castrate]] (''said of male animals only''), [[desex]], [[doctor]], [[fix]] (''colloquial''), [[spay]] (''said of female animals only'')

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[onzijdig]]
*Finnish: [[kuohita]] (1, ''of male animals''), [[kuohia]] (1, ''of male animals''), [[kastroida]] (1, ''of male animals''), [[leikata]] (1, ''of pets''), [[steriloida]] (1)
*French: [[châtrer]]
*German: [[verschneiden]]
*Greek: [[ευνουχίζω]] (evnoukhízo)
*Russian: [[кастрировать]] (kastrírovat’) ''[[impf.]]/[[pf.]]'', [[обесплодить]] (obesplódit’) ''[[pf.]]''