==Translingual==
'''No'''<br>(''chemistry'') [[symbol]] for [[nobelium]]

----

==English==
===Abbreviation===
&#x2116;, No., no. abbreviation for [[number]]

====Translations====
*Danish: [[nr.]]
*Dutch: nr, n°
*French: n°
*German: Nr.
*Interlingua: nº
*Portuguese: nº
*Slovak: [[č.]]
*Spanish: [[nº]] ''m'', [[nª]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[nr]]

===Interjection===
'''no'''

#Used to show disagreement or negation.
#:'' "No, you are mistaken." ''
#:'' "No, you may not watch television now." ''

====Antonyms====
*[[yes]]

==== Translations ====
*Czech: [[ne]]
*Dutch: [[nee]], [[neen]] (formal)
*Esperanto: [[ne]]
*Finnish: [[ei]]
*French: [[non]]
*German: [[nein]]
*Greek: [[όχι]]
*[[Interlingua]]: no
*Italian: no (1)
*Japanese: [[いいえ]] (iie)
*Portuguese: [[não]]
*[[Quechua]]: [[mánan]]
*Romanian: [[nu]]
*Slovak: [[nie]]
*Spanish: no
*Swedish: [[nej]]
*Turkish: [[hayır]]
*Vietnamese: [[không]]
*[[Volapük]]: no

===Adverb===
'''no'''

#Used to indicate zero amount or number.
#:'' "There is no water left here." ''
#:'' "No hot dogs were sold yesterday." ''
#Without
#:'' "No brainer."

====Antonyms====
*[[some]]

====Translations====
*Danish: [[uden]]
*Dutch: [[geen]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ne]]
*French: [[pas]] de, (''emphatically'') [[aucun]] ''m'', [[aucune]] ''f''
*:''Examples:'' '''There is no water''' ''Il n'y a pas d'eau''; '''There are no horses here''' ''Il n'y a pas de chevaux ici'' '''or''' ''Il n'y a aucun cheval ici''; '''There are no apples''' ''Il n'y a pas de pommes'' '''or''' ''Il n'y a aucune pomme''; '''No horse has two tails''' ''Aucun cheval n'a deux queues''; '''No apple is blue''' ''Aucune pomme n'est bleue'' (2)
*German: [[kein]] (2)
*Greek: [[den]] (needs to be put in Greek characters)
<!--
*Hebrew: [[לא]]
*Hungarian: [[nem]]
*Indonesian: [[tidak]], [[tak]], [[bukan]]
-->
*[[Interlingua]]: [[nulle]]
*:An expression with "no" qualifying a direct object is usually converted into an equivalent expression with "not" during translation: ''I eat no meat'' &rarr; ''I don't eat meat'' &rarr; ''io non mangia carne''.
*Italian: [[non]], (''emphatically'') [[nessun]] ''m'', [[nessun]] ''before a m noun beginning with ps, gn, x, z, or s + consonant'', [[nessuna]] ''f'', [[nessun]]' ''before a f noun beginning with a vowel''
*:''Examples:'' '''There is no water''' ''Non c'è acqua''; '''There are no horses here''' ''Non ci sono cavalli qui'' '''or''' ''Non c'è nessun cavallo qui''; '''There is no zero''' ''Non c'è nessuno zero''; '''There are no apples''' ''Non ci sono mele'' '''or''' ''Non c'è nessuna mela qui''; '''There is no goose here''' ''Non c'è nessun'oca qui''; '''No horse has two tails''' ''Nessun cavallo a due code''; '''No apple is blue''' ''Nessuna mela è blu'' (2)
<!--
*[[Javanese]]: [[ora]], [[mboten]], [[boten]]
*Korean: [[아니오]] (anio),
-->
*Latin: [[non]]
*Norwegian: [[ingen]]
*Portuguese: [[nenhum]] ''m'', [[nenhuma]] ''f'' (2); [[nada]] de (2)
*:An expression with "no" (2) qualifying a direct object is usually converted into an equivalent expression with "[[not]]" during translation:
*:*''I eat no meat'' &rarr; ''I don't eat meat'' &rarr; ''eu não como carne''.
*:If "no" can be acceptably substituted by "[[not even one]]", a double negation is introduced:
*:*''I see no houses'' (''I see not even one house'': acceptable) &rarr; ''I don't see no house'' &rarr; ''eu não vejo nenhuma casa''.
*:*''I eat no meat'' (''I eat not even one meat'': weird) &rarr; ''I don't eat meat'' &rarr; ''eu não como carne''.
*Romanian: [[nu]]
*Spanish: no (see notes under Portuguese translation)
*Swedish: [[ingen]] ''c'', ''m'', [[inga]] ''pl'', ''f'', [[inget]] ''n''
*Turkish: agglutinative particle [[mi]], [[mu]], [[mı]], [[mü]] gets included in the conjugation of the verb. Which one, depends on [[vowel harmony]], also [[değil]]

===Noun===
'''no''' (<!-- plural: [[ ]] -->)

#A negating expression; an answer that shows disagreement or disapproval. 
#A vote not in favor, or opposing a proposition. 
#:''The workers voted on whether to strike, and there were thirty "yeses" and one "no".''

====Translations====
*Danish: [[nej]] ''n'' (1,2)
*Dutch: [[nee]] ''f'', [[neen]] ''f'', [[neestem]] ''f'' (2)
*Finnish: [[ei]]
*Interlingua: no
*Portuguese: [[não]] ''m''
*Slovak: [[nie]] (1), [[proti]] (2, 3)
*Swedish: [[nej]] ''n''
*Vietnamese: [[lời không]]

===Noun===
'''no'''

# a form of classical Japanese musical drama.

====Alternative spellings====
*[[noh]]

====Translations====
*Danish: [[noh]] ''n''
*Japanese: [[能]] (のふ, nō)

----
==French==
===Abbreviation===
'''No''', '''[[N°]]''', '''[[n°]]'''

#No. (abbreviation)

===Adverb===
'''no'''

#no

----
==Frisian==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

# [[now]]

----
==Interlingua==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

# A word used to reply negatively to some question: no.
#: ''No, ille non travalia hodie.''

===Noun===
'''no'''

# A negative response: no.
#: ''Illa time audir un no.''

----
==Japanese [[Romaji]]==
===Postposition===
'''no''' ([[の]])

# [[of]], [['s]]

----
== Slovak ==
=== Etymology ===
Short for '''[[áno]]'''&mdash;''[[yes]]''

=== Adverb ===
'''no'''

# [[yeah]]
# [[yep]]

----
==Spanish==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[no#English|no]]
#[[not]]

===Noun===
'''&#x2116;, No., no.'''

#No.

----
==Tok Pisin==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[not]]

----
==Vietnamese==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[full]], as in a [[stomach]] being full.

====Usage note====
The usage highlighted in the following examples are the only meaning of "full" that ''no'' represents. In essence, ''no'' cannot be used to mean a "full gasoline tank", or a "bucket full of water."

====Example====
:Đang no.
::''I'm full.''
:No bụng.
::''I've got a full stomach.''
::''My stomach's full.''