==English==
===Etymology===
From Middle English [[nute]], from Old English [[hnutu]]. <!-- Is Latin [[nux]], nuc- a cognate? -->
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: nŭt
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /nʌt/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /nVt/
==English==
===Noun===
'''nut''' (''plural'' '''[[nuts]]''')

#A hard-shelled seed.
#A piece of metal, often [[hexagonal]], with a hole through it with internal threading intended to fit on to a bolt.
#(''informal'') An insane person.
#(''slang'') The head.
#(''slang; rarely used in the singular'') A testicle.

====Synonyms====
*(''insane person''): [[loony]], [[nutcase]], [[nutter]]
*(''the head''): [[bonce]], [[noddle]]
*(''a testicle''): [[ball]], [[bollock]] (''taboo slang''), [[nad]]

====Translations====

'''seed'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*{{nl}}: [[noot]]
*French: ''no generic translation exists''; [[noix]] ''f'' ''is often used, but this actually means "walnut"''
*German: [[Nuss]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Latin: [[nux]]
|}
|}

'''that fits on a bolt'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[écrou]] ''m''
*German: [[Mutter]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''informal: insane person'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[fou]] ''m'', folle ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: the head'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[Dötz]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: testicle'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*{{nl}}: [[noten]] ''m (plural)'' 
*German: [[Ei]] ''n'', ''lately:'' [[Nuss]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*[[Anglo-Saxon]]: [[hnutu]] ''f''
*Breton: [[kraoñ]] ''collective noun'' [[kraoñenn]] ''singular f'' (1), [[kraouenn]] ''f'' -où ''pl'' (2), [[brizh-sod]] (3), [[kell]] ''f'' divgell ''pl'' (4)
*Dutch: [[noot]]
*Finnish: [[pähkinä]] (1), [[mutteri]] (2), [[hullu]] (3), [[pöpi]] (3), [[muna#Finnish|muna]] (4), [[palli]] (4), [[kaali]] (5)
*Interlingua: [[nuce]] (1); [[matre vite]] (2); [[folle]] (3); [[teste]] (4), [[testiculo]] (4)
*Italian: [[noce]] ''f''
*Latvian: [[rieksts]] ''m'' (1), [[uzgrieznis]] ''m'' (2), [[trakais]] ''m'' (3), [[jucis]] ''m'' (3), [[pauts]] ''m'' (usually ''pl. - pauti'') (4)
*Polish: [[orzech]] ''m'' (1), [[nakrętka]] ''f'' (2), [[świr]] ''m'' (3)
*Portuguese: [[noz]] ''f'' (1); [[porca]] ''f'' (2); [[louco]] ''m'' (3), [[doido]] ''m'' (3), [[maluco]] ''m'' (3); [[bago]] ''m'' (4), [[ovo]] ''m'' (4)
*Romanian: [[nucă]] ''f'' (1), [[piuliţă]] ''f'' (2), [[nebun]] ''m'' (3) [[ţicnit]] ''m'' (3)
*Russian: [[орех]] ''m'' (1), [[гайка]] (gaika/gajka) ''f'' (2), [[сумасшедший]] (sumasshedshij) ''m'' / [[сумасшедшая]] (sumasshedshaya) ''f'' (3), [[яйцо]] (yaitso) ''n'' (4)
*Spanish: [[nuez]] (1), [[tuerca]] (2), [[chiflado]] (3), [[chalado]] (3), [[cojone]] (4), [[huevo]] (4)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[nat]] (2), [[longlongman]] (3), [[kiau]] (4), [[het]] (5)

====Related terms====
*[[coconut]]
*[[groundnut]]
*[[hazelnut]]
*[[peanut]]
*[[nutbeam]]
*[[nutcase]]
*[[nutmeg]]
*[[NutRageous]]&reg;
*[[nutshell]]

===Transitive verb===
'''to nut''' ('''nutting''', '''nutted''')

#(''slang'') To hit deliberately with the head; to [[headbutt]].

===Intransitive verb===
'''to nut''' ('''nutting''', '''nutted''')

#(''slang'') To [[ejaculate]] (''semen'').

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''nut''' ''n''

# [[use]], [[benefit]]

[[la:Nut]]