==English==
===Etymology===
French [[orbe]], from Latin [[orbis]] circle, orb. Compare with [[Orbit]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /oɹb/

===Noun===
# A spherical body; a globe; especially, one of the  celestial spheres; a sun, planet, or star.
#:    In the small orb of one particular tear. --Shak.
#:    Whether the prime orb, Incredible how swift, had thither rolled. --Milton.
# One of the azure transparent spheres conceived by the ancients to be inclosed one within another, and to carry the heavenly bodies in their revolutions.
# A circle; esp., a circle, or nearly circular orbit, described by the revolution of a heavenly body; an orbit.
#:    The schoolmen were like astronomers, which did feign eccentrics, and epicycles, and such engines of orbs. --Bacon.
#:    You seem to me as Dian in her orb. --Shak.
#:    In orbs Of circuit inexpressible they stood, Orb within orb. --Milton.
# A period of time marked off by the revolution of a heavenly body. (R.) --Milton.
# The eye, as luminous and spherical. [Poetic]
#:    A drop serene hath quenched their orbs. --Milton.
# A revolving circular body; a wheel. [Poetic]
#:    The orbs Of his fierce chariot rolled. --Milton.
# A sphere of action. (R.) --Wordsworth.
#:    But in our orbs we'll live so round and safe. --Shak
# Same as [[Mound]], a ball or globe.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

===Verb===
#To form into an orb or circle. [Poetic] --Milton. Lowell.
#To encircle; to surround; to inclose. [Poetic] 
#To become round like an orb. [Poetic]
#In the television program ''Charmed'' [http://www.worldofcharmed.cjb.net/], [http://www.thewb.com/Shows/Show/0,7353,||156,00.html] , a style of teleportation used by certain [[protagonist]]s.