==English==

{{webster}}
===Etymology===
[[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] paquet, diminutive from [[w:Late Latin|Late Latin]][[Category:Late Latin derivations]] [[paccus]], from the same source as [[pack]].

===Noun===
'''packet'''
#A small [[pack]] or [[package]]; a little [[bundle]] or [[parcel]]; as, a packet of letters, a packet of crisps, a packet of biscuits.
#Originally, a vessel employed by government to convey dispatches or mails; hence, a vessel employed in conveying dispatches, mails, passengers, and goods, and having fixed days of sailing; a mail boat. Packet boat, ship, vessel. 
#(computing) a small fragment of data as transmitted on some types of [[network]]. 
{{wikipedia}}

====Translations====
;small pack
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*{{sv}}: [[paket]] ''n''
{{bottom}}
;vessel to convey mail
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}
;small fragment of data
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*{{sv}}: [[paket]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''to packet'''
#To make up into a packet or bundle. 
#To send in a packet or dispatch vessel. 

====Translations====
;make into a packet
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*{{sv}}: [[paketera]]
{{bottom}}
;send in a packet vessel
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===

'''to packet'''
#To [[ply]] with a packet or dispatch boat. 

====Translations====
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[packet radio]]
*[[packet switching]], [[packet-switching]]

      
<!-- From 
Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913 + 1828)
ARTFL > Webster's Dictionary > Searching for packet:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Displaying 3 result(s) from the 1913 edition:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Packet (Page: 1029)
Pack"et (?), n. [F. paquet, dim. fr. LL. paccus, from the same source as E. pack. See Pack.] 

1. A small pack or package; a little bundle or parcel; as, a packet of letters. Shak. 

2. Originally, a vessel employed by government to convey dispatches or mails; hence, a vessel employed in conveying dispatches, mails, passengers, and goods, and having fixed days of sailing; a mail boat. Packet boat, ship, ∨ vessel. See Packet, n., 2. -- Packet day, the day for mailing letters to go by packet; or the sailing day. -- Packet note ∨ post. See under Paper. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Packet (Page: 1029)
Pack"et, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Packeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Packeting.] 

1. To make up into a packet or bundle. 

2. To send in a packet or dispatch vessel. 

Her husband Was packeted to France. Ford.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Packet (Page: 1029)
Pack"et, v. i. To ply with a packet or dispatch boat. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Displaying 1 result(s) from the 1828 edition:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
PACK''ET, n.


1. A small pack or package; a little bundle or parcel; as a packet of letters.

2. A dispatch-vessel; a ship or other vessel employed by government to convey letters from country to country or from port to port.

3. A vessel employed in conveying dispatches and passengers from place to place, or to carry passengers and goods coastwise.
PACK''ET, v.i. To ply with a packet or dispatch-vessel.

-->
----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''packet'''

#''see [[pack]]''