==English==
===Pronunciation===
* [[IPA]]: /'pa:rk/

===Noun===
'''park''' (''plural'' '''parks''')

#A tract of ground kept in its natural state, about or adjacent to a residence, as for the preservation of game, for walking, riding, or the like.
#A piece of ground, in or near a city or town, enclosed and kept for ornament and recreation; as, Hyde Park in London; Central Park in New York.
#A space occupied by the animals, wagons, pontoons, and materials of all kinds, as ammunition, ordnance stores, hospital stores, provisions, etc., when brought together; also, the objects themselves; as, a park of wagons; a park of artillery.
#A partially inclosed basin in which oysters are grown.
#A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant.

====Translations====

'''ground for preservation of game, etc'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''ground for recreation'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: حديقة, منتزه
*[[Cantonese]]: 公園 (gung1 yun4)
*Chinese: 公园 / 公園 (gōngyuán)
*Esperanto: parko
*French: [[parc]] ''m'', [[jardin public]] ''m''
*German: Park ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Hebrew]]: פרק
*[[Hindi]]: बाग़ (bāga)
*Italian: [[parco]] ''m''
*Interlingua: hortus
*[[Japanese]]: 公園  (こうえん / kouen)
*Korean: 공원 (gongwon)
*Russian: парк (park)
*Spanish: [[parque]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[park#Swedish|park]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''space occupied by animals, wagons, etc'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''basin where oysters are grown'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''a piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Transitive verb===
'''to park''' (parking, parked)

#To bring (something) to a halt, as a vehicle.
#To bring together in a park, or compact body.
#To enclose in a park, or as in a park.

'''bring to a halt'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[garer]], [[parquer]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[sostare]], [[parcheggiare]]
*Swedish: [[parkera]] (''if the intention is to leave the vehicle, otherwise [[stanna]]'')
|}
|}

'''bring together in a park'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''enclose in a park'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

----

==German==
===Noun===
'''Park''' ''m''

#park

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''park''' (''pl'' [[parker]], ''def sing'' [[parken]], ''def pl'' [[parkerna]])

#park (''in a city'')

[[hr:park]]
[[nl:park]]
[[pl:Park]]
[[ro:Park]]
[[fi:Park]]