===Pronunciation===
*AHD: pēch
*IPA: /piːʧ/
*SAMPA: /pi:tS/



===Etymology 1===

Middle English ''peche'', from Old French ''a peach'', from Latin ''persica'' (meaning 'from Persia'), from Greek ''persikē'', from feminine of ''Persikos'' (meaning 'Persian'). See [[perse]].

===Noun===
'''peach''' (''plural'' [[peaches]])

#A small Chinese tree (''Prunus persica''), widely cultivated throughout temperate regions, having pink flowers and edible fruit.
#The soft juicy fruit of the peach tree, having yellow flesh, downy, red-tinted yellow skin, and a deeply sculptured pit or stone containing a single seed.
#A light moderate to strong yellowish pink to light orange color.
#(''Informal'') A particularly admirable or pleasing person or thing.
#The large, edible berry of the ''Sarcocephalus esculentus'', a rubiaceous climbing shrub of west tropical Africa.

====Translations====
*Breton: [[pechez]] ''collective noun'' [[pechezenn]] ''singular f''
*Catalan: [[préssec]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[perzik]] ''m'' (1,2) (''f'' in [[Flemish]] (2)), [[perzikboom]] ''m''
*French: [[pêche]] ''f''
*Frisian: [[pjisk]], [[perzik]]
*German: [[Pfirsich]] ''m''
*Greek: [[rodakino]] (Modern)
*[[Italian]]: [[pesco]] ''m'' (1), [[pesca]] ''f'' (2, 3)
*Latin: [[persica]]
*Spanish: [[melocotón]] ''m''
*Danish: [[fersken]]

===Adjective===
'''peach'''

#Of the color peach.
#Particularly pleasing or agreeable.

====Synonyms====
Agreeable, fair, orange, paragon, rosy.

====Antonyms====
Disagreeable, foul, ugly, unpleasant.



===Etymology 2===

Middle English ''pechen'', from ''apechen'' (meaning 'to accuse') and ''empechen'' (same meaning), possibly from Anglo-Norman ''anpecher'', from Late Latin ''impedicāre'' (meaning 'to entangle'). See [[impeach]].

===Intransitive verb===
'''to peach''' ([[peached]])

#(''Obsolete'') To inform on someone; turn informer.

===Transitive verb===
'''peach''' ([[peached]])

#<!-- is this obsolete, too??? -->To inform against.

====Synonyms====
Sing, squeal, tattle.

====Antonyms====
Hide, keep secret.