For no real reason

Usage:

'You complete and utter Gurnig!'

'Oh, Gurnig!'


A gurnig is a small housefly which emerges from the faecal matter of humans and farm animals after eating partially digested food and stomach lining. They have a voracious appetite, and have to be removed by pumping ethanol through the intestines.


Gurnigs first emerged in Wales in the 1300's. A text from the time says:

The gurnyge is a scourge upone the lande, and hath caused many sheepe to be destryed by the imbalance of the huomores, and they had to be bledde to death.

It is unknown who wrote this text, but is suspected they were an important landowner from the time when the gurnig was at it's worst.

Modern treatment for gurnig infestation is a lot less painful than the ancient alcohol treatment. The doctors flush the patient's intestines with high-pressure water. However, US forces in the field who have suffered from gurnig infestation have used coca-cola, but this has only been documented once:

OH GOD OH GOD OH JESUS!

The soldier in question was returned to duty a week later with burns inside their intestinal tract.

Across the world, gurnigs have been largely ignored due to a lack of information. A book is being written by the Reverend P. Smith entitled: gurnigs:What a Pain in the Arse! with the aim of showing people the real danger presented by these evil little creatures. Unfortunately his views include cures which are not accepted by the mainstream. One cure (which is for desperate times, out in the wilderness) involves inserting the nozzle of a squirty cream cannister up the rectum of the patient and using up all the cream. The gurnigs are extremely lactose intolerant, and die within two hours, but the resulting infections are not worth the 'cure'.


The continual deletion of this page is a mystery, as it is a useful resource for those infected with gurnig eggs.

THE ADMINISTRATORS OF THIS WEBSITE ARE WORKING WITH THE ILLUMINATI IN HELPING THE GURNIGS, WHO WERE CREATED BY A SECTION OF THE ZIONIST LUCIFERIAN PAPIST OPUS DEI ILLUMINATI ARMIES, AND BY DELETING THIS THEY SIMPLY REVEAL THE FACT THEY WANT THE GURNIG PLAGUE TO END THE WORLD AND BEGIN A NEW WORLD ORDER FOR THE SURVIVORS!I URGE EVERY SANE RIGHT-THINKING PERSON TO GRAB A GUN AND KILL EVERY EVIL ZIONIST ILLUMINATI JESUIT THEY CAN FIND!