==English==
===Noun===
'''pepper''' ([[uncountable]] and [[countable]]; ''plural'': '''peppers''')

#A plant of the family ''Piperaceae''.
#(''[[uncountable]]'') A [[spice]] prepared from the [[ferment]]ed, dried, unripe red berries of this plant.
#A fruit of the [[capsicum]]: red, green, yellow or white, hollow and containing seeds, and in very spicy and mild varieties.

====Synonyms====
*(''fruit of the capsicum''):
**(''spicy''): [[chili]], [[chili pepper]], [[chilli]], [[hot pepper]]
**(''mild'') [[bell pepper]], [[paprika]], [[sweet pepper]]

====Translations====

'''plant'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''spice'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[pippuri]]
*French: [[poivre]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*German: [[Pfeffer]] ''m''
*Italian: [[pepe#Italian|pepe]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''fruit of the capsicum'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Danish: (''spicy'') [[chili#Danish|chili]], (''mild'') [[paprika#Danish|paprika]]
*Dutch: (''spicy'') [[chilipeper]]
*[[Esperanto]]: (''mild'') [[papriko]]
*Finnish: (''mild'') [[paprika#Finnish|paprika]]
*French: (''spicy'') [[piment]] ''m'', (''mild'') [[poivron]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*German: (''spicy'') [[Chili#German|Chili]], (''mild'') [[Paprika#German|Paprika]]
*Italian: (''spicy'') [[peperoncino]] ''m'', (''mild'') [[peperone]] ''m''
*Spanish: (''spicy'') [[pimiento#Spanish|pimiento]] ''m''
*Swedish: (''spicy'') [[chilipeppar]], (''mild'') [[paprika#Swedish|paprika]]
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.

*Slovene: [[poper]] ''m''
*Turkish: [[karabiber]]

===Transitive verb===
'''to pepper'''

#To add pepper to.
#To strike with something made up of small particles.
#To be covered with lots of (something made up of small things).
#:''After the [[hailstorm]], the beach was peppered with holes''
#To add (something) at frequent intervals.
#:''He liked to pepper his conversation with long words.''

====Translations====

'''add pepper to'''

'''strike with small particles'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[poivrer]], [[assaisonner]] de poivre
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[pepare]], [[condire]] con pepe
|}
|}

'''be covered with lots of (small things)'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''add at frequent intervals'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.

*Slovene: [[popoprati]]

===Related terms===
*[[bell pepper]]
*[[black pepper]]
*[[chili pepper]]
*[[green pepper]]
*[[pepper and salt]]
*[[peppercorn]]
*[[peppermint]]
*[[pepperpot]]
*[[peppery]]
*[[red pepper]]
*[[Scotch bonnet pepper]]
*[[sweet pepper]]
*[[white pepper]]
*[[yellow pepper]]

===See also===
*[[salt]]
*[[w:Pepper|Wikipedia article on pepper]]
*[[w:Capsicum|Wikipedia article on peppers (fruits of the capsicum plant)]]