==Noun==
#The official language of Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan, Persian belongs to the Southwestern branch of the [[Iranian]] subfamily of the Indo-Iranian family of languages. Indo-Iranian itself is a subfamily of the Indo-European language family. Related languages are [[Kurdish]], [[Pashto]], and [[Avestan]]. Primarily spoken in Iran, Afghanistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Persian in its modern form was already standardised by the 10th century AD. It is one of the earliest standard languages and has one of the most extensive and exalted literatures among the world's languages.
#A [[cinnamon]] [[bun]] coated with [[pink]] [[icing]] on top (local [[colloquialism]], ''[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thunder_Bay%2C_Ontario Thunder Bay, Ontario], [[Canada]]'')

==Adjective==
Describes a person, place or object referring to Persia or Persians.

====See also====
*[[Iranian]] 
*[[Tajiki-Persian]]
*[[Dari-Persian]]
*[[Farsi]]

====Translations====

*Arabic: [[فارسي]] (fársi)
*Bulgarian: [[персиец]] (persíets) ''m'' (1), [[персийка]] (persíjka) ''f'' (1)
*Danish: [[persianer]] (2)
*Dutch: [[Pers]] ''m'' (1), [[Perzische]] ''f'' (1), [[Perzisch]] ''n'' (2)
*Chinese: [[波斯人]] (bōsīrén) (1), [[波斯语]]的 (bōsīyǔ de) (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[perso]] (2)
*Finnish: [[persialainen]] (1), [[persia]] (3)
*French: [[Persan]] ''m'' (1,2)
*German: [[Perser]] ''m'' (1), [[Perserin]] ''f'' (1)
*Gujarati: [[ફારસી]] (1)
*Hindi: [[फ़ारसी]] (1)
*Hungarian: [[perzsiai]] (2)
*Indonesian: [[farsi]] (2)
*Italian: [[persiano]] (2)
*Korean: [[페르샤의]] (pereusya-ui) (2)
*Persian: [[فارسی]] (fārsi) (2)
*Polish: [[perski]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[persa]] ''m/f'' (2)
*Russian: [[персидский]] (persídskij) (2)
*Slovak: [[peržan#Slovak|peržan]] ''m'', [[peržanka]] ''f'' (1); [[peržština]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[persa]] ''m/f'' (2)
*[[Swahili]]: [[kiajemi]] (2)
*Swedish: [[perser]] ''m, pl'', [[persiska]] ''f'' (1,2)
*Turkish: [[farsça]] (2)
*[[Urdu]]: [[فارسي]] (fārsī)

===Adjective===
'''Persian'''

# of, from, or pertaining to Persia.
# of or pertaining to the Persian people.
# of or pertaining to the Persian language.

====Synonyms====
*[[Iranian]] (2)

====Translations====
*[[Azeri]]: [[fars]]
*Bulgarian: [[персийски]] (persíjski) ''m'' & ''pl''
*Chinese: [[波斯]]的 (bōsī de) (1), [[波斯人]]的 (bōsīrén de) (2); [[波斯语]]的 (bōsīyǔ de) (3)
*Danish: [[persisk]]
*Dutch: [[Perzisch]], [[Perzische]]
*Esperanto: [[persa]]
*Finnish: [[persialainen]]
*French: [[persan]]
*German: [[persisch]]
*Greek: [[περσικός]] (persikós)
*Japanese: [[ペルシア語]] (ペルシアご, pérusha-go)
*Kurdish: [[farisî]]
*Norwegian: [[persisk]]
*Persian: [[ایرانی]] (iráni), [[فارسی]] (fársi)
*Polish: [[perski]]
*Portuguese: [[persa]] '''m/f''
*Russian: [[персидский]] (persídskij)
*Slovak: [[perzský]] ''m'', [[perzská]] ''f'', [[perzské]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[persa]] '''m/f''
*Swedish: [[persisk]], [[persiska]]
*[[Tatar]]: [[farsí]]
*Turkish: [[İran]]

===See also===
*[[w:Persian|Wikipedia article on Persian]]

[[gu:Persian]]
[[hi:Persian]]
[[pl:Persian]]