==English==

===Noun phrase===
'''[[photon]] [[belt]]'''

# {{cattag|Science fiction}} A huge, [[toroidal]] object composed of photons.
{{seeCites}}

===Quotations===
'''1994:''' This photon belt &mdash; a huge mass of light &mdash; will be the vehicle for your restoration to full consciousness and for the complete transformation of your DNA and chakra systems.  &mdash; ''You are Becoming a Galactic Human'', by Virginia Essene and Sheldon Nidel, ISBN 0937147087
*'''2000''' &mdash; The Medicine Field of the Pleiades. "'''Photon Belt'''." Just by chance a few years ago, I received, through the mail, an article describing this same cosmic phenomenon. &mdash; Ohky Simine Forest, ''Dreaming the Council Ways: True Native Teachings from the Red Lodge''
*'''2000''' &mdash; Having made this correlation, I am positive that the ancient Mayas truly knew about the '''Photon Belt'''. The fact that the solar system takes 24,000 years to revolve around the Pleiades, however, still has to be studied. &mdash; Ohky Simine Forest, ''Dreaming the Council Ways: True Native Teachings from the Red Lodge''
*'''2001''' &mdash; What happens as we approach the end of each cycle of 26,000 years is that our solar system enters a very high frequency area known as a '''Photon Belt'''. We first began to penetrate the '''Photon Belt''' in 1972, though we were only touching the edges. &mdash; Ron Baker, ''Revelations for a Healing World, Book One''
*'''2002-2004''' &mdash; The '''Photon Belt''' For the most part, the Milky Way Galaxy is home to sentient, fully conscious beings with the exception of pockets of asleep, or partially-conscious beings, scattered here and there. &mdash; Duane Henkle and Diana Stone, ''The Lightbody Activation Manual''
*'''2002-2004''' &mdash; Our solar system enters the '''Photon Belt''' every 10,500 years or so and remains "in the beam" for 2,000 years. Earth last passed though the Photon Belt during the time of Atlantis. &mdash; Duane Henkle and Diana Stone, ''The Lightbody Activation Manual''
*'''2002-2004''' &mdash; According to Sheldon Nidle's book, Your First Contact, which I read years later, Earth entered the '''Photon Belt''' on this very day, January 1, 1997. &mdash; Duane Henkle and Diana Stone, ''The Lightbody Activation Manual''