===Pronunciation===
*plā, /pleɪ/, /pleI/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-eɪ|Rhymes: -eɪ]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''to play''' ([[played]], played)

#To act in a manner such that one would have [[fun]]; to engage in activities expressly for the purpose of recreation.
#To use a musical instrument.
#To deal with a situation in a diplomatic manner.
#To act in a performance.

====Translations====
*Arabic: [[يلعب]]
*Dutch: [[spelen]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ludi]]
*Finnish: [[leikkiä]] (1), [[pelata]](1), [[soittaa]] (2), [[näytellä]] (3)
*French: [[jouer]]
*German: [[spielen]]
*[[Guarani]]: [[ñembosarái]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[jocar]]
*Italian: [[giocare]]
*Japanese: [[asobu 遊ぶ]]
*Portuguese: [[jogar]]
*Russian: [[играть]]
*Slovak: [[hrať sa]]
*Slovene: [[igrati se]]
*Spanish: [[jugar]]
*Swedish: [[leka]], [[spela]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[nhemosaraîa]]

====Related terms====
*[[playact]]
*[[play along]]
*[[play ball]]
*[[playboy]]
*[[play by play]]<!-- should it be hyphenated or are both OK? -->
*[[play dead]]
*[[Play-Doh]]&trade;<!-- what about the non-trademark spellings? -->
*[[player]]
*[[playful]]
*[[playground]]
*[[play lunch]]
*[[playmate]]
*[[playoff]]
*[[playpen]]
*[[playroom]]
*[[playschool]]
*[[plaything]]
*[[playtime]]
*[[play to the gallery]]
*[[play up]]

===Transitive verb===
'''to play''' ([[played]], played)

#To participate in (a game).
#To operate (a musical instrument).
#To repeat recording with some device (play music, play DVD).

====Translations====
'''participate in a game'''
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*{{fi}}: [[pelata]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''operate instrument'''
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*{{fi}}: [[soittaa]]
*{{it}}: [[suonare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''to repeat with device'''
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*{{fi}}: [[toistaa]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''Translations to be checked'''
*Arabic: (1) [[يعزف]]  (2), [[يتمرن]]
*French: jouer à (1), jouer de (2)
*:They're playing cards - ''Ils jouent aux cartes''
*:I play the piano - ''Je joue du piano''
* Slovak: [[hrať]]
*Slovene: [[igrati]] (1, 2)
*Spanish: [[jugar]] a (1), [[jogar]] (2) ('''or "jugar de/a"?''') , [[tocar]] (2)
*:They're playing cards - ''Juegan a las cartas''
*:I play the piano - ''... (needs filling in - see above)'', ''Toco el piano''

====Related terms====
*[[play along]]
*[[play by ear]]

===Noun===
'''play''' (plural: [[plays]])

#A theatrical performance consisting of [[actor]]s, etc.
#An individual's performance in a sport.
#A a major move by a business.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[schouwspel]] ''n'' (1), [[toneelstuk]] ''n'' (1), [[stuk]] ''n'' (1), [[spelbeweging]] ''f'' (2)
*Finnish: [[kappale]] (1), [[näytelmä]] (1), [[peli]] (2)
*French: [[pièce]] ''f'' (1)
*German: [[Schauspiel]] ''n'' (1), [[Spielzug]] ''m'' (2)
*Italian: [[dramma]] ''m'' (1)
*[[Polish]]: [[sztuka]] ''f'' (1)
*Slovak [[hra]] (1, 2)
*Slovene: [[igra]] ''f'' (1)
*Swedish: [[pjäs]]

====Related terms====
*[[playbill]]
*[[player]]
*[[playwright]]
*[[radioplay]]