==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: plŭm
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /plʌm/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /plVm/

====Homophones====
*[[plumb]]

===Noun===
'''plum''' (''plural'' '''[[plums]]''')

#(''also'' '''plum tree''') A [[stone-fruit]] tree of the ''[[Prunus]]'' family.
#The [[fruit]] of the plum tree.
#A dark [[bluish]]-[[red]] [[color]]/[[colour]], the colour of some plums.
#A desirable thing.
#A [[raisin]], when used in a pudding or cake.
#(''slang''; ''usually in plural'') A [[testicle]].

====Derived terms====
*[[plummy]]
*[[plum pudding]]
*[[plum tree]]

====Translations====

'''tree'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Italian: [[prugno]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''fruit'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[prune#French|prune]] ''f''
*Italian: [[prugna]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''desirable thing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''raisin'''
''See'' '''[[raisin]]'''

'''slang: testicle'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing the numbers.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Arabic: [[برقوق]] (barqūq), [[خوخ]] (khaukh)
*[[Binisayâ]]: [[sirwelas]]
*Bosnian: [[šljiva]] ''f''
*Bulgarian: [[слива]] (sliva) ''f'' (2)
*[[Burmese]]: [[မက္မန္းသီး]] (makmansii)
*Chinese: [[李子]] (lǐzi)
*Croatian: [[šljiva]] ''f'' (2, 1)
*Czech: [[švestka]] ''f'', [[slíva]] ''f''
*Dutch: [[pruimenboom]] (1), [[pruim]] (2), [[donkerrood]] (3), [[rozijn]] (5)
*[[Old English]]: [[plūme]] ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[pruno]]
*Estonian: [[ploom]]
*[[Farsi]]: [[آلو]] (alu), [[گوجه]] (gujah)
*Finnish: [[luumu]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[prom]] (2), [[rezyn]] (5)
*Galician: [[ameixeira]] ''f'' (1), [[ameixa]] ''f'' (2)
*German: [[Pflaume]] ''f''
*[[Middle High German|German, Middle High]]: [[pflūme]], [[pfrūme]]
*[[Old High German|German, Old High]]: [[pfrūma]]
*Greek: [[δαμασκηνιά]] (dhamaskiniá) ''f'' (1), [[δαμάσκηνο]] (dhamáskino) ''n'' (2)
*Hebrew: [[שזיף]] (shozif) ''m''
*Hindi: [[आलूचा]] (ālūcā)
*Hungarian: [[szilva]]
*Icelandic: [[plóma]] ''f''
*Irish: [[pluma]] ''m'', [[prúna]] ''m''
*Latin: [[prunum]] ''n''
*Latvian: [[plūme]] ''f''
*Lithuanian: [[slyva]] ''f'' (1, 2), [[slyvinis]] ''m'' (3)
*Luxembourgish: [[Praum]] ''f'', [[Promm]] ''f''
*Norwegian: [[plomme]]
*Polish: [[śliwka]] ''f'' (2), [[rodzynka]] ''f'' (5)
*Portuguese: [[ameixa]] ''f'' (2)
*Russian: [[слива]] (sliva) ''f'' (2)
*[[Sanskrit]]: [[कर्कन्धुः]] (karkandhuḥ)
*Serbian: [[шљива]] (šljiva) ''f'' (2,1)
*Slovakian: [[slivka]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[ciruela]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[plommonträd]] ''n'' (1), [[plommon]] ''n'' (2)
*Thai: [[ลูกพุทราฝรั่ง]] (luukphutrafrang)
*Turkish: [[erik]]
*Vietnamese: [[quả mận]], [[trái mơ]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[plöm]]
*Welsh: [[eirinen]] ''f''
*[[Zulu]]: [[iplamu]], [[ithungulu]]

===Adjective===
'''plum'''

#Of a dark bluish-red colour.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[donkerrood]]
*Romanian: [[prună]] ''f''

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Wiktionary appendix of colours]]
*[[w:plum|Wikipedia article on the plum]]

[[Category:Check_translations]]