'''Warning: please see [[Talk:Polish language]] - it seems that the consensus is to shift this page to http://wikibooks.org/wiki/Basic_Polish_language_course - so please edit the wikibooks version, not this one on wiktionary.'''

= What is the Polish language =

The '''Polish language''' is a member of the '''Western Slavic''' group of the [[Indoeuropean]] family of languages. It is easiest to learn if someone already knows some other related language.

The most closely related are other Western [[Slavic languages]]: [[Czech language|Czech]], [[Slovak language| Slovak]] and [[Kashubian language|Kashubian]]. More distant are the Southern and Eastern Slavic languages like [[Russian language|Russian]], [[Ukrainian language|Ukrainian]], and [[Croatian language|Croatian]]. Even further, but still somewhat similar are the [[Baltic languages]]: [[Latvian language|Latvian]] and [[Lithuanian language|Lithuanian]].

Someone who doesn't speak any Slavic or Baltic language, but speaks some other Indoeuropean language, may still find many similarities between Polish grammar and the grammar of that language as well as many similar words.

Learning Polish is most difficult for those who don't know any Indoeuropean language well, thus a person who speaks only [[Chinese language|Chinese]], [[Japanese language|Japanese]], or [[Korean language|Korean]]. . . but it's still possible.

= Some useful expressions =

As an initiation to Polish it's useful to know a few common expressions:

* [[Dzień dobry]] - good day
* [[Dobry wieczór]] - good evening
* [[Dobranoc]] - good night
* [[Cześć]] - hi
* [[Do widzenia]] - good bye
* [[Proszę]] - please
* [[Dziękuję]] - thanks
* [[Dzięki]] - thanks (less formal)
* [[Przepraszam]] - I'm sorry / excuse me
* [[Tak]] - yes
* [[Nie]] - no / not

= Basic Polish sentences 1 =

Let's try to make some simple sentences.

Two things you should know are that:
# verbs take different forms depending on person, number and tense
# nouns take different forms depending on number and function in the sentence, or to be more exact, grammatical case

* "Ala je jabłko" - Ala eats apple.
* "Ala je ciastko" - Ala eats cake

* "Basia je jabłko" - Basia eats apple.

* "Ala" (English ''Alice'') and "Basia" (English ''Barbara'') are popular female names in Poland.
* "Jabłko" means an apple.
* "Ciastko" means cake.
* "je" is appropriate form of verb that means "to eat".

There are 7 cases in Polish, with the two most important being nominative (Polish "mianownik") - for subjects, and accusative (Polish "biernik") - for objects.

While word order in Polish can be changed, the most typical is:
* Subject (in nominative) - Verb - Object (in accusative).

Declension of Polish nouns is rather regular.
Nouns that end in "-o" have the same nominative and accusative,
nouns that end in "-a" in the nominative have "-ę" in the accusative.

Knowing that, we can create more sentences.
For example:
* "Dziecko je ciastko" - child eats cake.
* "Dziecko je czekoladę" - child eats chocolate.

* "dziecko" - child
* "czekolada" - chocolate

To practise a little more, let's use "widzi", which is the appropriate form of the verb "to see".

* "Ala widzi Basię" - Ala sees Basia
* "Basia widzi Alę" - Basia sees Ala
* "Dziecko widzi Alę" - child sees Ala
* "Ala widzi dziecko" - Ala sees child

= Polish pronunciation =

You are probably wondering how to pronounce Polish.
This is very difficult, especially if you speak a language which has simple syllables, like Japanese.

Polish spelling is rather regular. It uses 9 special characters, and some character pairs to represent sounds not available in the Latin alphabet.

Vowels are prononuced like in all European languages (and for that matter Japanese) other than English. Consonants are listed as 

"a b d e f h k l m n o p r s t z" are pronounced as you'd expect them to be.
* "c" is pronounced "ts", if you'll prononuce it "s" you will be understood
* "g" is always hard, like in "game" not like "gene".
* "i" is pronounced like "i" and before other vowel like "y". It softens the consonant before it.
* "j" is pronounced like "y".
* "w" is pronounced like "v".
* "y" is pronounced like "i", but it doesn't soften the consonant before it.
* "u" is pronounced like "ó" (below)

Special letters are:
* "ą" - prononuced like "on" or "om" or better likę "ow" but with "w" ended with mouth open a bit wider( you see i can say "w" correctly then).
* "ć" - pronounced like soft "ch".
* "ę" - prononuced like "e", "en" or "em" or better "ew"(like with "ą" -> "ow" and likę "ą" it sounds soft like French). As the last vowel of the word almost always like "e".
* "ł" - pronounced like "w"
* "ń" - pronounced like soft "n"
* "ó" - pronounced like "oo" in "wood" but shorter - like "ou" in "would" 
* "ś" - pronounced like soft "sh".
* "ź" - pronounced like soft "zh".
* "ż" - pronounced like hard "zh".

Special letter pairs are:
* "ch" - pronounced like "h"
* "cz" - pronounced like hard "ch"
* "rz" - pronounced like hard "zh"
* "sz" - pronounced like hard "sh"

If you don't know how to pronounce hard/soft pairs, you can use the same form and you will usually be understood.

= Basic Polish sentences 2 =

Now you probably want to know how to say that "I" or "you" do something,
not only some other person.

You have to conjugate the verb. Let's try "to eat"(Polish "jeść") first.
* First person - "jem"
* Second person - "jesz"
* Third person - "je"
Or "to see"
* First person - "widzę"
* Second person - "widzisz"
* Third person - "widzi"

As you see this is quite regular. Let's try a few more:
* "to drink"
** First person - "piję" (many Polish people makes an error saying "e" despite "ę". So you see that it's not a big difference)
** Second person - "pijesz"
** Third person - "pije" (different spelling, ALMOST the same pronunciation as in the first person)
* "to do" / "to make"
** "robię"
** "robisz"
** "robi"
* "to read"
** "czytam"
** "czytasz"
** "czyta"
* "to write"
** "piszę"
** "piszesz"
** "pisze" (different spelling, the same pronunciation as in the first person)
* "to be"
** "jestem"
** "jesteś"
** "jest"
* "to have"
** "mam"
** "masz"
** "ma"

And some examples:
* "Ala pije kawę" - Ala drinks coffee
* "Basia robi kawę" - Basia makes coffee
* "Ala czyta książkę" - Ala reads book
* "Basia pisze książkę" - Basia writes book
* "kawa" - coffee
* "książka" - book

Word for "I" is "ja" and word for "you" is "ty", but they are very rarely used as subjects. They may be used in poetry or for strong emphasis.

* "Ja piję kawę" - I drink coffee (correct, but not natural)
* "Piję kawę" - I drink coffee (better)
* "Ty jesz ciastko" - You eat cake (correct, but not natural)
* "Jesz ciastko" - You eat cake (better)

= More on nouns - genders =

There are two numbers in Polish - singular and plural. There are few surprises here.

There are five genders in Polish: feminine, neuter, person-masculine, animate-masculine and inanimate-masculine.

Unlike German, and more like Italian, it is usually possible to find out gender by looking at the noun ending and the meaning of the noun.
* Nouns that end in "-a" are usually feminine.
** Exceptions include words that end in "-ista" (like "komunista" - communist) which are person-masculine
** And words that end in "-awca"/"-owca" (like "sprzedawca" - salesperson, "kierowca" - driver) that are also person-masculine
** One particularly annoying word is "mężczyzna" which means adult male person, which is obviously person-masculine.
** Despite not being feminine, their declension is quite similar to declension of feminine nouns that end in "-a".
* Nouns that end in "-o" are usually neuter.
* Nouns that end in "ść" are usually feminine. They are often abstract nouns, like "miłość" (love, from adjective "miły" - nice, liked) and "wysokość" (height, from adjective "wysoki" - high)
* Most other nouns that end in a consonant are masculine, and their exact gender agrees with their meaning. The most usual exceptions are nouns that are animate-masculine which aren't really animate, especially in the spoken language.
* Nouns that end in "e", "i" or "u" in nominative are rare.

Now some examples:
<table border=1>
<tr><th>Gender<th>Meaning<th>Nominative<th>Accusative
<tr><td>Feminine<td>Coffee<td>Kawa<td>Kawę
<tr><td>Neuter<td>Milk<td>Mleko<td>Mleko
<tr><td>Person-masculine<td>Adam (male name)<td>Adam<td>Adama
<tr><td>Animate-masculine<td>Cat<td>Kot<td>Kota
<tr><td>Inanimate-masculine<td>Computer<td>Komputer<td>Komputer
</table>

* "Adam pije kawę" - Adam drinks coffee
* "Ala widzi Adama" - Ala sees Adam
* "Kot pije mleko" - cat drinks milk
* "Adam widzi kota" - Adam sees cat
* "Adam ma komputer" - Adam has computer

= Order of words in a sentence =

In Polish it is possible to move words around in the sentence, and to drop subject or object if they are obvious from context.
These sentences mean the same "Ala has cat":
* Ala ma kota
* Ala kota ma
* Kota ma Ala
* Ma Ala kota
* Kota Ala ma
* Ma kota Ala

Yet only the first of these sounds natural in Polish, and others should be used used for emphasis only, if at all.

If apparent from context, you can drop the subject, object or even the verb:
* Ma kota - can be used if it's obvious who is being talked about
* Ma - answer for "Czy Ala ma kota ?" (does Ala have a cat ?)
* Ala - answer for "Kto ma kota ?" (who has a cat ?)
* Kota - answer for "Co ma Ala ?" (what does Ala have ?)
* Ala ma - this sounds least natural. There is a tendency in Polish to drop the subject rather than the object and rarely you know the object but not the subject. If the question was "Kto ma kota ?" (who has a cat ?), the answer should be "Ala" alone, without a verb.

In particular, "ja" and "ty", and also their plural equivalents "my" and "wy", are almost always dropped.

= Plural =

Like most other Indoeuropean languages, and unlike Chinese or Japanese, almost everything in Polish depends on number, which may be either plural or singular.

Let's take a look at verbs first.
<table border=1>
<tr><th rowspan=2>Meaning<th colspan=3>Singular<th colspan=3>Plural
<tr><th>First person<th>Second person<th>Third person<th>First person<th>Second person<th>Third person
<tr><td>To eat<td>jem<td>jesz<td>je   <td>jemy<td>jecie<td>jedzą
<tr><td>To drink<td>piję<td>pijesz<td>pije   <td>pijemy<td>pijecie<td>piją
<tr><td>To see<td>widzę<td>widzisz<td>widzi   <td>widzimy<td>widzicie<td>widzą
<tr><td>To read<td>czytam<td>czytasz<td>czyta <td>czytamy<td>czytacie<td>czytają
<tr><td>To write<td>piszę<td>piszesz<td>pisze <td>piszemy<td>piszecie<td>piszą
<tr><td>To be<td>jestem<td>jesteś<td>jest   <td>jesteśmy<td>jesteście<td>są
<tr><td>To have<td>mam<td>masz<td>ma   <td>mamy<td>macie<td>mają
<tr><td>To think<td>myślę<td>myślisz<td>myśli   <td>myślimy<td>myślicie<td>myślą
<tr><td>To drive<td>jadę<td>jedziesz<td>jedzie <td>jedziemy<td>jedziecie<td>jadą
<tr><td>To give<td>daję<td>dajesz<td>daje <td>dajemy<td>dajecie<td>dają
</table>

And some nouns:
<table border=1>
<tr><th rowspan=2>Gender<th rowspan=2>Meaning<th colspan=2>Singular<th colspan=2>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative<th>Accusative<th>Nominative<th>Accusative
<tr><td>Feminine<td>Girl<td>Dziewczyna<td>Dziewczynę<td colspan=2>Dziewczyny
<tr><td rowspan=2>Neuter<td>Child<td colspan=2>Dziecko<td colspan=2>Dzieci
<tr>                    <td>Beer<td colspan=2>Piwo<td colspan=2>Piwa
<tr><td>Person-masculine<td>Boy<td>Chłopak<td>Chłopaka<td>Chłopaki<td>Chłopaków
<tr><td>Animate-masculine<td>Cat<td>Kot<td>Kota<td colspan=2>Koty
<tr><td>Inanimate-masculine<td>Computer<td colspan=2>Komputer<td colspan=2>Komputery
</table>

As you can see, with the exception of person-masculine, the nominative and accusative are the same in the plural. The fact that they are identical so often (most of plural and most of singular neuter and inanimate-masculine) is one of the reasons why word order is not very flexible.

Like in other Indoeuropean languages, the verb agrees with the subject.
* Ala ma komputery - Ala has computers
* Dziewczyny mają komputer - girls have computer
* Koty piją mleko - cats drink milk

One thing that must be mentioned is countability.
Uncountable nouns are usually used in the singular. 
But in practice there is no word in Polish that may not be used in the plural.
Unlike English, uncountable nouns may be used as countable with some '''implied''' counter. For example the uncountable noun "piwo" (beer),
may be used in the plural as "dwa piwa" (two beers), if it is obvious what
kind of counter (in this case a container - like bottle, can or glass) is being talked about.

= Noun cases =

There are seven cases of noun and adjective declension in Polish.
So far we have only introduced the nominative ("mianownik") and the accusative ("biernik"). The whole list, in traditional order, is:
* Nominative (mianownik)
* Genitive (dopełniacz)
* Dative (celownik)
* Accusative (biernik)
* Instrumentative (narzędnik)
* Locative (miejscownik)
* Vocative (wołacz)

Quite like Latin, the '''vocative''' usually has the same form as the nominative, 
and is very rare in practice. The vocative of all plural nouns, all neuter nouns and all adjectives has the same form as the nominative, and the vocative of proper names is used very rarely. While this will be a simplification, you may think that it's an archaic case. In fact it diappeared in most other Slavic languages.

The '''locative''' is never used alone, only in connection with certain prepositions, like "w" (in) and "o" (about). Of course prepositions don't really have "meaning", and these are very rough approximations.
* Chłopak myśli o dziewczynie - boy thinks about a girl
* Adam jest w sklepie - Adam is in shop

* sklep - shop

The '''instrumentative''' may be used alone for the name of the tool that is used for a given action, or with some prepositions, like "z" ("with"):
* Ala jedzie samochodem - Alice drives a car
* Adam jest z Alą - Adam is with Ala (may either mean "in this moment", or more permamently, for example as boy and girl friend)

* samochód - car

Quite surprisingly, the instrumentative is also used in sentences "X is Y".
* Ala jest dziewczyną - Ala is a girl
* Adam jest chłopakiem - Adam is a boy

The main function of the '''accusative''' is for the object of the sentence. But it can also 
be used with some prepositions. In such cases usually both the accusative and either the locative or the instrumentative may take that preposition, and the locative/instrumentative means state whereas the accusative means change. This is very much like Latin.
Examples:
* with locative - "na stole" - on table
* with accusative - "na stół" - onto table
* with locative - "na poczcie" - at Post Office
* with accusative - "na pocztę" - to Post Office
* with instrumentative - "pod stołem" - under table
* with accusative - "pod stół" - to under table (not really good English, but you get the idea)

But it doesn't always work this way. "w" (in) can take locative, but the correct change preposition is "do" with genitive. "w" with the accusative is rarely used.
For example "w sklepie" (in shop), but "do sklepu" (to shop) not "w sklep".

The '''dative''' is used as the indirect object. For example:
* Ala daje kotu mleko - Ala gives milk to cat (cat is in dative)

Unlike Latin and to an even greater extent German, the '''genitive''' is a very important case in Polish. It means possession, like in:
* Adam widzi kota Ali - Adam sees Ala's cat (Ala in genitive)
* Kot Ali pije mleko - Ala's cat drinks milk (Ala in genitive again)
But it may also be object in megative sentence (nie is negation particle, placed usually before verb), if object is in the accusative:
* Kot pije mleko - cat drinks milk (milk in the accusative)
* Kot nie pije mleka - cat doesn't drink milk (milk in the genitive)
* Ala jest dziewczyną - Ala is a girl (girl is instrumentative)
* Adam nie jest dziewczyną - Adam is not a girl (girl still is instrumentative)
* Ala daje kotu mleko - Ala gives milk to cat (milk in the accusative, cat in the dative)
* Ala nie daje kotu mleka - Ala doesn't give milk to cat (milk in the genitive, cat still in the dative)

The genitive is also used with units, like:
* puszka piwa - can of beer (beer in the genitive)

* puszka - can

The '''nominative''' doesn't have any other uses.

Before declension tables are provided, let's take a look at adjectives:

= Adjectives =

The adjective is a very powerful part of speech in Polish.
It declines very regularly depending on case, number and gender.
It may be used as a noun. For example Polish adjectives "bogaty" (rich) and "czarny" (black) are very often used as "nouns" (taking forms "bogata" and "czarna" in feminine gender).

While there is only one pattern, final consonant group takes different Prawie wszystkie przymiotniki odmieniają się według jednego wzoru.

The vocative always has the same form as the nominative.

<table border=1>
<tr align=center><th rowspan="2">Case</th><th colspan="4">Singular</th><th colspan="2">Plural</th></tr>
<tr><th>Feminine</th><th>Person-masuline and animate-masculine</th><th>Inanimate-masculine</th><th>Neuter</th><th>Person-masculine</th><th>Other genders</th></tr>
<tr align=center><th>Nominative</th>
<td>-a/-ia
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=2>-y/-i
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-e/-ie
<td bgcolor="#FF0000">-i/-y
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-e/-ie
<tr align=center><th>Genitive</th>
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-ej/-iej
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=3>-ego/-iego
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=2>-ych/-ich
<tr align=center><th>Dative</th>
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-ej/-iej
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=3>-emu/-iemu
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=2>-ym/-im
<tr align=center><th>Accusative</th>
<td bgcolor="#8080FF">-ą/-ią
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-ego/-iego
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-y/-i
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-e/-ie
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-ych/-ich
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-e/-ie
<tr align=center><th>Instrumentative</th>
<td bgcolor="#8080FF">-ą/-ią
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=3>-ym/-im
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=2>-ymi/-imi
<tr align=center><th>Locative</th>
<td bgcolor="#00FF00">-ej/-iej
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=3>-ym/-im
<td bgcolor="#00FF00" colspan=2>-ych/-ich
</table>

Fields, by color:
* White - basic form (feminine singular nominative)
* <font color="#00FF00">Green</font> - second form (with "i") in the case of adjectives ending in "ka", "ga" or "ia" in the base form, first form (without "i") otherwise
* <font color="#8080FF">Blue</font> - second form (with "i") in the case of adjectives ending in "ia" in the basic form, first form (without "i") otherwise
* <font color="#FF0000">Red</font> - final consonant group must be palatized (or "softened"), and "i" or "y" must be added, depending on result

Some softening rules are (compared to the singular masculine nominative):
<table border=1>
<tr><th colspan="2">"y" changes to "i"</td>
<tr><td>by<td>bi</tr>
<tr><td>my<td>mi</tr>
<tr><td>ny<td>ni</tr>
<tr><td>wy<td>wi</tr>
<tr><th colspan="2">Change of consonant, "y" stays "y"</td>
<tr><td>ry<td>rzy</tr>
<tr><th colspan="2">Change of consonant, "y" changes to "i"</td>
<tr><td>ły<td>li</tr>
<tr><td>szy<td>si</tr>
<tr><th colspan="2">Change of consonant, "i" changes to "y"</td>
<tr><td>ki<td>cy</tr>
<tr><td>gi<td>dzy</tr>
<tr><th colspan="2">No changes, with "i"</td>
<tr><td>pi<td>pi</tr>
<tr><td>si<td>si</tr>
<tr><td>wi<td>wi</tr>
<tr><th colspan="2">No changes, with "y"</td>
<tr><td>rzy<td>rzy</tr>
</table>

= Feminine noun declension =

The declension of nouns is less regular than of adjectives, but follows a pattern that is in many ways similar to adjective declension.

Let's take a look at a few typical feminine declension nouns:

<table border=1>
<tr><th colspan=3>Girl
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Dziewczyn'''a'''  <td>Dziewczyn'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Dziewczyn'''y'''  <td>Dziewczyn
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Dziewczyn'''ie''' <td>Dziewczyn'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Dziewczyn'''ę'''  <td>Dziewczyn'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Dziewczyn'''ą'''  <td>Dziewczyn'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Dziewczyn'''ie''' <td>Dziewczyn'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Woman
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Kobie'''ta'''     <td>Kobiet'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Kobie'''ty'''     <td>Kobiet
<tr><th>Dative            <td><font color="#0000FF">Kobie'''cie'''</font>    <td>Kobiet'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Kobie'''tę'''     <td>Kobiet'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Kobie'''tą'''     <td>Kobiet'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Kobie'''cie'''</font>    <td>Kobiet'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Ant
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Mrówk'''a'''      <td>Mrówk'''i'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Mrówk'''i'''      <td><font color="#00FF00">Mrówek</font>
<tr><th>Dative            <td><font color="#0000FF">Mrówc'''e'''</font>      <td>Mrówk'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Mrówk'''ę'''      <td>Mrówk'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Mrówk'''ą'''      <td>Mrówk'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Mrówc'''e'''</font>      <td>Mrówk'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Coffee
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Kaw'''a'''        <td>Kaw'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Kaw'''y'''        <td>Kaw
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Kaw'''ie'''       <td>Kaw'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Kaw'''ę'''        <td>Kaw'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Kaw'''ą'''        <td>Kaw'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Kaw'''ie'''       <td>Kaw'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Cow
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Krow'''a'''       <td>Krow'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Krow'''y'''       <td><font color="#FF0000">Krów</font>
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Krow'''ie'''      <td>Krow'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Krow'''ę'''       <td>Krow'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Krow'''ą'''       <td>Krow'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Krow'''ie'''      <td>Krow'''ach'''
</table>

As you can see it's quite regular. Possible changes are:
* <font color="#0000FF">softnening of final consonant group in the singular dative and locative (which have the same form)</font>
* <font color="#FF0000">change of "o" to "ó" (pronounced "u") in the plural genitive</font>
* <font color="#00FF00">insertion of "e" between the two final consonants in the plural genitive.</font> You may think of this "e" as a kind of aid to pronunciation. "mrówk" would be pretty hard to say without this "e". The Polish language allows quite complicated consonant groups at the the beginning of a syllable, but it tries to avoid complex syllable endings.

These changes aren't specific to the feminine noun declension - they happen throughout the Polish language, so you'd better get used to them.

A bit less typical are feminine nouns that end in "-ia":

<table border=1>
<tr><th colspan=3>Comedy
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Komed'''ia'''     <td>Komed'''ie'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Komed'''ii'''     <td>Komed'''ii'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Komed'''ii'''     <td>Komed'''iom'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Komed'''ię'''     <td>Komed'''ie'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Komed'''ią'''     <td>Komed'''iami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Komed'''ii'''     <td>Komed'''iach'''
</table>

Notice that in the genitive and the accusative the pronunciation is the same.
This is not usual in Polish, and may cause some problems if number is not obvious from context. One solution is to overemphasise difference between "e" and "ę" in speech (which are usually pronounced the same at word endings).
A better solution is to use some adjective or pronoun, for example:
* "tej komedii" (singular genitive, of this comedy)
* "tych komedii" (plural genitive, of these comedies)
* "tą komedię" (singular accusative, this comedy)
* "te komedie" (plural accusative, these comedies)

And abstract feminine nouns ending in "-ść":

<table border=1>
<tr><th colspan=3>Love
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Miłość            <td>Miłośc'''i'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Miłośc'''i'''     <td>Miłośc'''i'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Miłośc'''i'''     <td>Miłośc'''iom'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Miłość            <td>Miłośc'''i'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Miłośc'''ią'''    <td>Miłośc'''iami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Miłośc'''i'''     <td>Miłośc'''iach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Height
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Wysokość          <td>Wysokośc'''i'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Wysokośc'''i'''   <td>Wysokośc'''i'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Wysokośc'''i'''   <td>Wysokośc'''iom'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Wysokość          <td>Wysokośc'''i'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Wysokośc'''ią'''  <td>Wysokośc'''iami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Wysokośc'''i'''   <td>Wysokośc'''iach'''
</table>

There is some magic here with "ść" changing to "śc" but it's only spelling.
You never write the softened version of a consonant before a vowel - you change it to the "normal" version and add "i" to mark it as "soft". You don't have to add "i" if it's already there.

Without this magic endings would look like:
<table border=1>
<tr align=center><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr align=center><th>Nominative        <td>                  <td>'''i'''
<tr align=center><th>Genitive          <td>'''i'''           <td>'''i'''
<tr align=center><th>Dative            <td>'''i'''           <td>'''om'''
<tr align=center><th>Accusative        <td>                  <td>'''i'''
<tr align=center><th>Instrumentative   <td>'''ą'''           <td>'''ami'''
<tr align=center><th>Locative          <td>'''i'''           <td>'''ach'''
</table>

Let's try to use that knowledge in practice.
* Ala myśli o miłości - Ala thinks about love (love in locative)
* Dziewczyny lubią komedie - girls like comedies (comedies in accusative)
* Kobieta pije kawę - woman drinks coffee (coffe in accusative)
* Dziewczyna nie pije kawy - girl doesn't drink coffee (coffee in genitive)
* Basia nie widzi krów - Basia doesn't see cows (cows in genitive)
* Marta nie lubi mrówek - Marta doesn't like ants (ants in genitive)

* Marta - another popular female name
* myśli - third person singular form of "to think"
* lubi - third person singular form of "to like"
* lubią - third person plural form of "to like"

= Masculine noun declension =

There are three masculine genders - person-masculine, animate-masculine and inanimate-masculine. The differences between them are regular:
* In the case of inanimate-masculine, the accusative has the same form as the  nominative
* In the case of person-masculine, the accusative has the same form as the genitive
* In the case of animate-masculine, the accusative has the same form as the genitive in the singular, but as the nominative in the plural

But there are also some other differences in declension.
Before they get explained, let's take a look at some examples.

<table border=1>
<tr><th colspan=3>Boy (person-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Chłopak           <td>Chłopak'''i'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Chłopak'''a'''    <td>Chłopak'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Chłopak'''owi'''  <td>Chłopak'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Chłopak'''a'''    <td>Chłopak'''ów'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Chłopak'''iem'''  <td>Chłopak'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Chłopak'''u'''    <td>Chłopak'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Farmer (person-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Rolnik            <td><font color="#00FF00">Rolnic'''y'''</font>
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Rolnik'''a'''     <td>Rolnik'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Rolnik'''owi'''   <td>Rolnik'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Rolnik'''a'''     <td>Rolnik'''ów'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Rolnik'''iem'''   <td>Rolnik'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Rolnik'''u'''     <td>Rolnik'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Guy (person-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Facet             <td><font color="#00FF00">Facec'''i'''</font>
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Facet'''a'''     <td>Facet'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Facet'''owi'''   <td>Facet'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Facet'''a'''     <td>Facet'''ów'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Facet'''em'''   <td>Facet'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Facec'''ie'''</font>     
<td>Facet'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Engineer (person-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Inżynier          <td>Inżynier'''owie''' or
<font color="#00FF00">Inżynierz'''y'''</font>
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Inżynier'''a'''   <td>Inżynier'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Inżynier'''owi''' <td>Inżynier'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Inżynier'''a'''   <td>Inżynier'''ów'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Inżynier'''em'''  <td>Inżynier'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Inżynierz'''e'''</font>     
<td>Inżynier'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Cat (animate-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Kot               <td>Kot'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Kot'''a'''        <td>Kot'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Kot'''u'''        <td>Kot'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Kot'''a'''        <td>Kot'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Kot'''em'''       <td>Kot'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Koc'''ie'''</font>       <td>Kot'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Dog (animate-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td><font color="#FF0000">Pies</font>              <td>Ps'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Ps'''a'''         <td>Ps'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Ps'''u'''         <td>Ps'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Ps'''a'''         <td>Ps'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Ps'''em'''        <td>Ps'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Ps'''ie'''</font>        <td>Ps'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Computer (inanimate-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Komputer          <td>Komputer'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Komputer'''a'''   <td>Komputer'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Komputer'''owi''' <td>Komputer'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Komputer          <td>Komputer'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Komputer'''em'''  <td>Komputer'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Komputerz'''e'''</font>  <td>Komputer'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Table (inanimate-masculine)
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td><font color="#FF0000">Stół</font>               <td>Stoł'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Stoł'''u'''       <td>Stoł'''ów'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Stoł'''owi'''     <td>Stoł'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td><font color="#FF0000">Stół</font>              <td>Stoł'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Stoł'''em'''      <td>Stoł'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#0000FF">Stol'''e'''</font>       <td>Stoł'''ach'''
</table>

Phonetic changes and irregularities are:
* <font color="#FF0000">All "e" (or "ie") and "o"/"ó" changes in the singular nominative, and also the accusative if it has the same form as the nominative.</font>
* The plural nominative isn't very regular. <font color="#00FF00">In the case of some nouns softening of the final consonant may be required.</font> Some nouns even have two correct plural nominative forms - one with "owie" and another in a soft "e".
* Some nouns have a singular locative in "u", other have in "e", and in the case of the latter <font color="#0000FF">the final consonant group must be softened.</font>
* Some nouns have a singular dative in "u" others in "owi".
* Some inanimate-masculine nouns have a singular genitive in "u", most others in "a".

Now some sentences:
* Pies jest pod stołem - dog in under table (table in instrumentative)
* Chłopak nie ma psa - boy doesn't have a dog (dog in genitive)
* Facet daje kotu mleka - guy gives milk to cat (cat in dative)
* Adam jest rolnikiem - Adam is a farmer (farmer in instrumentative)

= Neuter noun declension =

The neuter gender is least common. Many neuter words end in "-o" and their declension is somewhat similar to inanimate-masculine.

<table border=1>
<tr><th colspan=3>Beer
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Piw'''o'''        <td>Piw'''a'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Piw'''a'''        <td>Piw
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Piw'''u'''        <td>Piw'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Piw'''o'''        <td>Piw'''a'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Piw'''em'''       <td>Piw'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Piw'''u'''        <td>Piw'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Chair
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Krzesł'''o'''        <td>Krzesł'''a'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Krzesł'''a'''        <td><font color="#0000FF">Krzeseł</font>
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Krzesł'''u'''        <td>Krzesł'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Krzesł'''o'''        <td>Krzesł'''a'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Krzesł'''em'''       <td>Krzesł'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td><font color="#FF0000">Krześl'''e'''</font>        <td>Krzesł'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Cake
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Ciastk'''o'''     <td>Ciastk'''a'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Ciastk'''a'''     <td><font color="#0000FF">Ciastek</font>
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Ciastk'''u'''     <td>Ciastk'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Ciastk'''o'''     <td>Ciastk'''a'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Ciastk'''iem'''   <td>Ciastk'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Ciastk'''u'''     <td>Ciastk'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Child
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Dzieck'''o'''     <td>Dziec'''i'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Dzieck'''a'''     <td>Dziec'''i'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Dzieck'''u'''     <td>Dziec'''iom'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Dzieck'''o'''     <td>Dziec'''i'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Dzieck'''iem'''   <td><font color="#00FF00">Dzieć'''mi'''</font>
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Dzieck'''u'''     <td>Dziec'''iach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Eye
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Ok'''o'''         <td>Ocz'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Ok'''a'''         <td>Ocz'''u'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Ok'''u'''         <td>Ocz'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Ok'''o'''         <td>Ocz'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Ok'''iem'''       <td>Ocz'''ami''' or archaic Ocz'''yma'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Ok'''u'''         <td>Ocz'''ach'''
<tr><th colspan=3>Ear
<tr><th>                  <th>Singular          <th>Plural
<tr><th>Nominative        <td>Uch'''o'''        <td>Usz'''y'''
<tr><th>Genitive          <td>Uch'''a'''        <td>Usz'''u'''
<tr><th>Dative            <td>Uch'''u'''        <td>Usz'''om'''
<tr><th>Accusative        <td>Uch'''o'''        <td>Usz'''y'''
<tr><th>Instrumentative   <td>Uch'''em'''       <td>Usz'''ami'''
<tr><th>Locative          <td>Uch'''u'''        <td>Usz'''ach'''
</table>

The archaic instrumentative '''oczyma''' doesn't have much to do with the neuter gender - it was the Indoeuropean dual number (for a pair of things), which disappeared in almost all modern Indoeuropean languages. You can still find it in some expressions.

<font color="#FF0000">In the singular locative "krześle" you can see how softening works on a group of consonants - all consonants are softened, in that case "s" changes to "ś" and "ł" to "l".</font>

<font color="#0000FF">As with other declensions, "e" may appear between two final consonants if there is no vowel after them ("null" ending).</font>

<font color="#00FF00">The plural instrumentative is "-ami"/"-iami" in almost all nouns, and "-imi"/"-ymi" in almost all adjectives. Here you can see one of the exceptions. For some weird historical reasons "a" disappeared and we have "-ćmi" instead of the expected "-ciami".</font>

In the case of "dziecko", "oko" and "ucho" you can see that a slightly different form is used as the base for the singular and plural forms. This is also quite archaic.

If you find some neuter noun, try to decline it rather like "piwo", "krzesło" and "ciastko" rather than like "dziecko", "oko" or "ucho".

Examples:
* Dziecko je ciastka - child eats cakes (cake in accusative)
* Dzieci nie piją piwa - children don't drink beer (beer in genitive)
* Oczy Ali są zielone - Ala's eyes are green (eyes in nominative, Ala in genitive, green in nominative)
* Kot jest na krześle - cat is on chair (chair in locative)

* zielone - plural neuter form of adjective "green"

= More on adjectives =

Adjectives may be used in many ways, including:
* in constructs "X is Y"
* as nouns
* as describing words for nouns, usually placed before nouns

The English "X is Y" has many meanings. If Y is a noun, it usually means that X is a member of some class, for example "Ala jest dziewczyną" (Ala is a girl). In that case Y should be used in the instumentative. But if Y is an adjective, it means a completely different thing - that Y has a certain feature. For example "Kot jest czarny" (cat is black) doesn't mean that cat is member of class of black things. To mark that this is a different situation the nominative is used for Y. In the case of adjectives that can be used as nouns both cases may be used, but the nominative is much more common.

Conjugation of the verb "to be":
<table border=1>
<tr><th><th>Singular<th>Plural
<tr><th>First person<td>jestem<td>jesteśmy
<tr><th>Second person<td>jesteś<td>jesteście
<tr><th>Third person<td>jest<td>są
</table>

* Ala jest ładna - Ala is pretty
* Kot Basii jest czarny - Basia's cat is black
* Krowy rolnika są białe - farmer's cows are white
* Jestem wysoki - I'm tall
* Jesteś gruby - You're fat (singular you)
* Jesteśmy młodzi - We're young
* Jesteście bogaci - You're rich (plural you)

Adjectives used and their antonyms, in the feminine singular nominative
* ładna - pretty
* brzydka - ugly
* czarna - black
* biała - white
* wysoka - tall/high
* niska - short (height)
* gruba - thick/fat
* chuda - thin
* młoda - young
* stara - old
* bogata - rich
* biedna - poor

Some examples with adjectives used as nouns:
* Czarni lubią muzykę - black people like music (the fact that it's black people discussed must be found out from context)
* Ala lubi czarną - Ala likes black coffee (of course if it was the context of "coffee")
* Bogaci lubią golf - rich people like golf

* muzyka - music
* golf - golf

If an adjective describes some noun, it has to be used in the same case, number and gender as the noun.
Here are some examples:
* Biały kot pije mleko - white cat drinks milk (white in nominative)
* Ładna dziewczyna ma białego kota - Pretty girl has white cat (pretty in nominative, white in accusative)
* Gruby chłopak nie ma czarnego kota - fat boy doesn't have black cat (fat in nominative, black in genitive)
* Czarne oczy Marty są ładne - Marta's black eyes are pretty (black and pretty in nominative)
* Dorota jest stara - Dorota is old (old in nominative)
* Dorota jest starą kobietą - Dorota is old woman (old in instrumentative)

You can also stack adjectives:
* Ala ma grubego czarnego kota - Ala has fat black cat (fat and black in accusative)

= Grouping expressions =

Often we want to group nouns or sentences, to say "X and Y" or "X or Y".
In Polish the basic "and" word is "i":
* Ala i Basia mają koty - Ala and Basia have cats
* Kobieta je ciastko i pije kawę - woman eats cake and drinks coffee
* Kot jest gruby i czarny - cat is fat and black
* Adam lubi Alę i Basię - Adam likes Ala and Basia

Other important words are "z" (with) and "bez" (without). "z" is used with the instrumentative, and "bez" with the genitive
* Magda z Tomkiem są małżeństwem - Magda and Tomek are married (Tomek in instrumentative)
* Magda i Tomek są małżeństwem - also ok
* Dziecko lubi kanapki z serem - child likes sandwiches with cheese (cheese in instrumentative)
* Dziecko lubi kanapki i ser - child likes sandwiches and cheese, different meaning
* Kobieta lubi kawę bez cukru - woman likes coffee without sugar (sugar in genitive)

* małżeństwo - married couple
* kanapka - sandwich
* ser - cheese
* cukier - sugar
* Tomek - popular male name, English Thomas

When you group a few nouns, the result will always be plural, and if any of them was person-masculine, so will the whole expression be.

There are many words for "or" - the most usual is "albo",
but "czy" which usually has a different meaning may be used for this purpose too.

* Masz kota albo psa ? - "Do you have cat or dog ?" Proper answers are "tak" ("yes", if you have either or even both) or "nie" ("no", if you have neither)
* Masz kota czy psa ? - "Do you have cat or dog ?". Proper answers are "kota" ("a cat", if you have a cat but not a dog), or "psa" ("a dog", if you have a dog but not a cat). If you have both or neither some more complex answer will be needed. But "tak"/"nie" ("yes"/"no") are not appropriate.
* Ala albo Basia ma kota - Ala or Basia has a cat
* Adam ma kota albo psa - Adam has a cat or a dog
* Dziecko je ciastko albo pije mleko - child eats cake or drinks milk

= Questions =

In Polish yes/no questions are created by a rising tone, which is marked by question mark:
* Ala ma kota - Ala has a cat
* Ala ma kota ? - Does Ala have a cat ?

You can also put the word "czy" before a sentence to make it a question. This makes it slightly more formal and also easier to understand for foreigners.
* Czy Ala ma kota ?

Other questions are created by question pronouns like:
* gdzie - where
* kiedy - when
* kto - who
* co - what
* ile - how much
* jaka - what kind
* która - which

"kto" and "co" behave like nouns (but they don't have number) and "jaka" and "która" like adjectives, so you must use them in their proper form.

<table border=1>
<tr><th>                <th>Who    <th>What
<tr><th>Nominative      <td>kto    <td>co
<tr><th>Genitive        <td>kogo   <td>czego
<tr><th>Dative          <td>komu   <td>czemu
<tr><th>Accusative      <td>kogo   <td>co
<tr><th>Instrumentative <td>kim    <td>czym
<tr><th>Locative        <td>kim    <td>czym
</table>

A question pronoun is usually moved to the beginning of a sentence, even if it replaces something that would usually be at the end, like an object.

* Kogo lubi Ala ? - who does Ala like (who in accusative and moved to beginning of sentence). Emphasis on "Ala"
* Kogo Ala lubi ? - also correct, emphasis on "to like"
* Co pije dziecko - what does chilk drink ? (what in accusative), emphasis on "dziecko"
* Co dziecko pije - also correct, emphasis on "to drink"
* Kogo lubisz ? - Who do you like ? (who in accusative)
* Z kim rozmawiasz ? - who are you talking with ? (who in instrumentative)
* O czym myślisz ?  - what are you thinking about ? (who in locative)
* Gdzie jest ciastko - where is the cake ?
* Gdzie są dziewczyny - where are girls ?
* Którą dziewczynę lubisz ? - which girl do you like ? (which and girl in accusative)
* Jaką pijesz kawę ? - what kind of coffee do you drink ? (what kind in accusative), may mean either "what kind of coffee are you drinking ?" and "what kind of coffee do you like ?" (and drink usually)

* rozmawiasz - second person singular of verb "to talk"

= Verbs =

There are two classes of verbs in Polish - perfective verbs to talk about actions that are already finished or will be completed, and imperfective verbs for actions that are taking place in some moment. Very often they form pairs.

Perfective verbs don't have a present tense - if something is already done you must use the past tense and if it's not - the future tense. This "future perfective" tense is identical in form to the present tense. Let's take the imperfective and perfective verbs for "to drink":
* Kot pije mleko - "cat drinks milk" or "cat is drinking milk now", pije is an imperfective verb
* Kot wypije mleko - "cat will drink (all) milk", wypije is a perfective verb

To form other tenses than the present and future perfective we need two more verb forms - infinitive and participle.

The infinitive usually ends with "-ć". The participle depends on the subject's number and gender:
<table border="1">
<tr><th rowspan=3>Perfectiveness<th rowspan=3>Meaning<th rowspan=3>3rd person singular<th rowspan=3>Infinitive<th colspan=5>Participle
<tr>              <th colspan=3>Singular     <th colspan=2>Plural
<tr>              <th>Feminine <th>All masculine genders <th>Neuter    <th>Person-masculine <th>Other genders

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To drink <td>pije<td>pić
<td>piła<td>pił<td>piło<td>pili<td>piły
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>wypije<td>wypić
<td>wypiła<td>wypił<td>wypiło<td>wypili<td>wypiły

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To eat <td>je<td>jeść<td>jadła<td>jadł<td>jadło<td><font color="#FF0000">jedli</font><td>jadły
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>zje<td>zjeść
<td>zjadła<td>zjadł<td>zjadło<td><font color="#FF0000">zjedli</font><td>zjadły

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td>To see <td>widzi<td>widzieć
<td>widziała<td>widział<td>widziało<td>widzieli<td>widziały

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To read <td>czyta<td>czytać
<td>czytała<td>czytał<td>czytało<td>czytali<td>czytały
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>przeczyta<td>przeczytać
<td>przeczytała<td>przeczytał<td>przeczytało<td>przeczytali<td>przeczytały

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To write <td>pisze<td>pisać
<td>pisała<td>pisał<td>pisało<td>pisali<td>pisały
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>napisze<td>napisać
<td>napisała<td>napisał<td>napisało<td>napisali<td>napisały

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td>To have <td>ma<td>mieć
<td>miała<td>miał<td>miało<td><font color="#FF0000">mieli</font><td>miały

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To think <td>myśli<td>myśleć
<td>myślała<td>myślał<td>myślało<td><font color="#FF0000">myśleli</font><td>myślały
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>pomyśli<td>pomyśleć
<td>pomyślała<td>pomyślał<td>pomyślało<td><font color="#FF0000">pomyśleli</font><td>pomyślały

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To drive <td>jedzie<td>jechać
<td>jechała<td>jechał<td>jechało<td>jechali<td>jechały
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>pojedzie<td>pojechać
<td>pojechała<td>pojechał<td>pojechało<td>pojechali<td>pojechały

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To do / to make <td>robi<td>robić
<td>robiła<td>robił<td>robiło<td>robili<td>robiły
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>zrobi<td>zrobić
<td>zrobiła<td>zrobił<td>zrobiło<td>robili<td>zrobiły

<tr align=center><td>Imperfective<td rowspan=2>To earn<td>zarabia<td>zarabiać
<td>zarabiała<td>zarabiał<td>zarabiało<td>zarabiali<td>zarabiały
<tr align=center><td>Perfective<td>zarobi<td>zarobić
<td>zarobiła<td>zarobił<td>zarobiło<td>zarobili<td>zarobiły
</table>

Very often a perfective verb is formed from the imperfective by some prefix.
Another class of pairs is verbs which are already derived from some other verb by prefixing. In Polish double prefixing is very rare, so an alternative form of base verb is used with the same prefix.

Participles usually end regularly in "ła", "ł", "ło", "li", "ły".
<font color="#FF0000">In some cases "a" changes to "e" in the plural person-masculine, where a softened consonant is used. This is one of the typical features of the Polish language, and it can also be found in other places, for example the locative of the noun "miasto" (city) is "mieście".</font>

The future imperfective is formed by a special form of the word "to be" and either the infinitive or an appropriate form of the participle.

<table border=1>
<tr><th><th>Singular<th>Plural
<tr><td>First person<td>będę<td>będziemy
<tr><td>Second person<td>będziesz<td>będziecie
<tr><td>Third person<td>będzie<td>będą
</table>

* Ala będzie czytać książkę - Ala will be reading a book
* Ala będzie czytała książkę - also correct
* Ala przeczyta książkę - Ala will read (whole) book
* Dziecko będzie jadło ciastko - "child will be eating a cake", or "child will eat part of cake" (maybe it will eat whole cake, but the sentence doesn't tell it)
* Dziecko będzie jeść ciastko - also correct
* Dziecko zje ciastko - child will eat (whole) cate
* Zrobisz obiad ? - will you make dinner ? (question about effect, that is dinner)
* Będziesz robić obiad ? - will you make dinner ? (question about action, for example - do you need some help with it ?)

* obiad - dinner

You can also use the word "to be" alone:
* Ciastko będzie smaczne - cake will be tasty (probably cake isn't made yet, but when it will be made, it will be tasty)
* Basia będzie mamą - Basia will be a mother (Basia is pregnant)
* Adam będzie inżynierem - Adam will be an engineer (maybe he's studying engineering)


* smaczna - tasty

Past tenses - past perfective and past imperfective - were originally formed in a similar way, but later the auxiliary verb merged with the participle.
The Polish past perfective doesn't have anything to do with the English perfect tense - it's used for actions that are done and is
more similar to the English Simple Past.

The participle alone is the correct third person past tense:

* Ala zrobiła kawę - Ala made coffee (past perfective tense, important thing is that coffee is available now)
* Ala robiła kawę - Ala was making coffee (past imperfective tense, answer for "what was Ala doing when you last saw her" or "what is all that mess in the kitchen")

In first and second person you have to add:
* First person singular - "m"
* Second person singular - "ś"
* First person plural - "śmy"
* Second person plural - "ście"

You may not use neuter ("-ło") as the base, and in the case of the masculine singular ("-ł") you have to add an auxiliary "-e-":
* zrobiłem kawę - I made coffee (masculine I)
* zrobiłam kawę - I made coffee (feminine I)
* zrobiłeś kawę - you made coffee (singular masculine you)
* zrobiłaś kawę - you made coffee (singular feminine you)
* zrobiłyśmy kawę - we made coffee (... and we are all girls)
* zrobiliśmy kawę -  we made coffee (... and there is at least one man among us)

There was also a tense to mark something that happened before a given event in the past, like the English "pluperfect", but it's very archaic now and rarely used in modern Polish.

= Usage of the infinitive =

<table border=1>
<tr><th rowspan=2>Meaning<th rowspan=2>Infinitive<th colspan=2>Participle<th colspan=3>Singular<th colspan=3>Plural
<tr><th>Singular masculine<th>Plural masculine<th>First person<th>Second person<th>Third person<th>First person<th>Second person<th>Third person
<tr><td>want<td>chcieć<td>chciał<td>chcieli
<td>chcę<td>chcesz<td>chce<td>chcemy<td>chcecie<td>chcą
<tr><td>like<td>lubić<td>lubił<td>lubili
<td>lubię<td>lubisz<td>lubi<td>lubimy<td>lubicie<td>lubią
<tr><td>be able to<td>umieć<td>umiał<td>umieli
<td>umię<td>umiesz<td>umie<td>umiemy<td>umiecie<td>umieją
<tr><td>need<td>potrzebować<td>potrzebował<td>potrzebowali
<td>potrzebuję<td>potrzebujesz<td>potrzebuje<td>potrzebujemy<td>potrzebujecie<td>potrzebują
</table>

You may use these verbs, and many others, together with other verbs in the infinitive:
* Ala lubi pić kawę - Ala likes drinking coffee
* Ala lubi kawę - means almost the same, "drinking" is usual thing you do with coffee
* Dziecko lubi jeść ciastka - child likes eating cakes
* Dziecko lubi ciastka - and "eating" is the usual thing you do with cakes
* Adam lubi myśleć o Ali - Adam likes thinking about Ala
* Adam lubi Alę - Adam likes Ala ("thinking about" is not the default action for Ala)
* Tomek chce być inżynierem - Tomek wants to be engineer (to become engineer)
* Dziecko chce jeść - child wants to eat (child is hungry)
* Basia umie robić kawę - Basia can make coffee
* Kasia potrzebuje umieć jeździć samochodem - Kasia needs to be able to drive car (2 infinitives stacked one on another, car in the instrumentative)

* Kasia - popular female name
* samochód - car

= Copyright =

This document is copyright 2002 Tomasz Węgrzanowski &lt;taw@users.sf.net&gt;<br>
May be distributed under terms of GNU Free Documentation Licence.

See also:
* [[Polish language - examples]]
* [http://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polish_language Wikipedia: Polish language]

''external link:'' [http://slowniki.onet.pl/ Polish - other language dictionary]