==English==
===Etymology===
[[Onomatopoeic]]

===Noun===
'''pop''' (''countable and uncountable''; ''plural'' '''[[pops]]''')

#(''countable'') A loud, sharp sound, lower in frequency than a [[ping]] and shorter in duration than a [[boom]].
#:''There was a pop in the distance, perhaps a gunshot, perhaps a large board dropped flat on a concrete surface.''
#(''colloquial''; ''uncountable'') [[Soda pop]].
#: ''Would you like beer or pop?''

<!--separate etymology required here-->
===Noun===
'''pop''' (''plural'' '''pops''')

# (''colloquial''; also [[pap]], [[paps]]) Affectionate form of father.
#: ''My pop used to tell me to do my homework every night.''

===Etymology===
Shortened from '''[[popular]]'''

===Noun===
'''pop''' (''uncountable'')

#[[Pop culture]].
#: ''The artist is clearly comfortable with both fine art and pop.''
#[[Pop music]].

====Translations====
'''pop culture'''
''See'' '''[[pop culture]]'''

'''pop music'''
''See'' '''[[pop music]]'''

===Intransitive verb===
'''to pop''' ([[pops]], [[popped]], [[popping]])

#To make a popping sound.
#:''The popcorn popped loudly.''
#To burst open.
#:''If you blow up that balloon too much, it will pop.''
#(''vulgar'') To ejaculate.
#(''colloquial'') To make a short journey.
#:''Can you just pop to the shop and buy a pint of milk?''
#:''Mrs Jones has popped round to say hello.''

====Translations====
*{{fr}} [[se]] [[crever]] (2)
===Transitive verb===
'''to pop''' ([[pops]], [[popped]], [[popping]])

#To cause to burst.
#:''The bully popped the little boy's balloon with a straight pin.''
#(''criminal slang'') To murder, particularly by gunshot.
#:''We had to pop the store owner, then we had to pop all the witnesses.''
#(''computing'') To remove (a data item) from the top of a [[stack]].

====Translations====
*{{fr}} [[crever]] (1)
====Synonyms====
*(''cause to burst''): [[burst]]
*(''criminal slang: to murder''): [[bump off]], [[do in]], [[take out]]

====Antonyms====
*(''computing'') [[push]]

===Adjective===
'''pop''' (''no comparative or superlative''; ''used only [[attributively]]'')

#Short form of '''[[popular]]'''.
#:''pop culture''

<!--moved to note after respelling of word
====Usage note====
Generally, ''pop'' is used attributively, as in [[pop culture]] or [[pop music]].  One would not generally say something like ''that music is very pop'', but might say ''What do you expect?  It's just pop.''.
-->
====Translations====
*French: pop

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Spanish: [[fresca|(agua) fresca]] (noun 2)
*Vietnamese: [[nước ngọt]], [[nước xô-đa]] (noun 2)

===Derived terms===
*[[pop art]]
*[[popcorn]]
*[[pop culture]]
*[[pop group]]
*[[pop in]]
*[[pop music]]
*[[pop off]]
*[[pop out]]
*[[pop over]]
*[[pop round]]
*[[Pop Tart]]&reg;
*[[pop top]]
*[[pop up]]
*[[pop-up]], [[popup]]
*[[soda pop]]
*[[vox pop]]

----
==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''pop''' ''de''

#[[doll]]

----
==French==
===Adjective===
'''pop'''

#(''abbreviation of'' '''[[populaire]]''') pop

===Noun===
'''pop''' ''m''

#pop, [[pop music]]

====Synonyms====
*[[musique pop]]

[[nl:pop]]