:UK: /pO:t'm{nt@u/ in SAMPA, /p&#596;:t'mant&#601;&#650;/ in IPA 
:US: /pO:rt'm{ntou/ in SAMPA.

Plural, portmanteaus, portmanteaux

''[[noun]]''

# A large travelling case made of [[leather]].
#* '''a. 1500''' - anon, ''Robin Hood and the Bishop of Hereford'' in ''The English and Scottish Popular Ballads'' (1898)
#*: Then Little John took the bishop's cloak, And spread it upon the ground, And out of the bishop's portmantua, He told three hundred pound.
#* '''1667''' - Charles Croke, ''Fortune's Uncertainty''
#*: Rodolphus therefore finding such an earnest Invitation, embrac'd it with thanks, and with his Servant and Portmanteau, went to Don Juan's; where they first found good Stabling for their Horses, and afterwards as good Provision for themselves.
Used as an ''[[adjective]]'' in compound words

# A work produced by several people.
#*'''2002''' - Nicholas Lezard, ''Spooky tales by the master and friends'' in ''The Guardian'' (London) (December 14, 2002) Page 30.
#*:The overall narrator of this portmanteau story - for Dickens co-wrote it with five collaborators on his weekly periodical, All the Year Round - expresses deep, rational scepticism about the whole business of haunting.
#*'''2002''' - Nick Bradshaw, ''One day in September'' in ''Time Out'' (December 11, 2002) Page 71.
#*: We're so bombarded with images, it's a struggle to preserve our imaginations.' In response, he's turned to cinema, commissioning 11 film-makers to contribute to a portmanteau film, entitled '11'09"01' and composed of short films each running 11 minutes, nine seconds and one frame.
# ''[[linguistic terminology|Linguistics]]''  A word formed which combines the meaning of several words often by adjoining parts of the words together; for example, ''[[smoke]]'' and ''[[fog]]'' combine to form ''[[smog]].'' 
#* '''1872''' (coinage) - Lewis Carroll. ''Alice Through the Looking Glass'' 
#*: Well, "slithy" means "lithe and slimy." "Lithe" is the same as "active." You see it's like a portmanteau--there are two meanings packed up into one word.
#* '''1995''' - Michael Cart, ''From Romance to Realism'', page 110, ISBN 0060242892 
#*: "[[Multiculturalism]]" is a [[portmanteau word]], containing in its [[definition]] and its [[resonance|resonant]] [[connotation|connotations]] as many [[concept|concepts]] as a suitcase does socks

== Translations ==
*nl: noun: [[kostuumkoffer]], [[koffer]]; adj: [[mengwoord]] (noun) (= ''portmanteau word'')
*fr: mot-valise (adj)
== Further reading ==

* [[w:portmanteau|Wikipedia article]]