'''Pound-for-pound''' is the term used to describe a fighter's value in relation to fighters of different weight classes. It was created to describe world [[Welterweight]] and [[Middleweight]] champion [[Sugar Ray Robinson]], the most accomplished fighter of the modern era, by supporters who realized that while he could beat anyone in his own class, as a Middleweight he would not be able to beat a Heavyweight. Hence, Robinson was called the pound-for-pound best without being expected to best much larger fighters, under the belief that he as a Middleweight was still a better quality fighter than any fighter fighting at heavier or lighter weights than him. [[Pernell Whitaker]], an [[Olympics|Olympic]] [[gold medalist]] who won pro titles from 130-154 pounds, adopted the term to describe himself in the 1980s and '90s. 

That title was passed on to other fighters. [[Felix Trinidad]], [[WBA]] [[Middleweight]] Champion, would later hold the title, but after his loss to undisputed [[Middleweight]] Champion [[Bernard Hopkins]] the title passed on to [[Welterweight]] Champion [[Shane Mosley]]. Mosley, however, lost to Vernon Forrest, and the title passed on to the [[Light heavyweight]] king [[Roy Jones Jr.]] After Jones lost to [[Antonio Tarver]], the title passed on to Bernard Hopkins, until he lost to [[Jermain Taylor]]. [[WBC]] Jr. Welterweight Champion [[Floyd Mayweather Jr.]] is now likely the best pound-for-pound fighter in the world, although some might argue for former Jr. Middleweight Champion [[Winky Wright]].

While some take this pound-for-pound title seriously, others feel it is a bad rating system and has no real relevance. They feel that it is impossible to say what fighter at what weight is better than what other fighter at another weight. Others would say that it is valid, and that it is possible to say that a fighter fighting at one weight is better than a fighter at a different weight.

The term has also become something of a [[cliché]], as it is now used to describe numerous other things apart from boxing.