In the Japanese cartoon [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macross Super Dimension Fortress Macross], the Protoculture was an ancient civilization with incredible technology. Humans and Zentradi were descended from the Protoculture.

In [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotech Robotech], the American adaption, Protoculture was a powerful energy source, and a catalyst in genetic engineering.

In <i> Robotech: The Legend of Zor</i>, a six part comic book mini-series published by Eternity Comics in the early 1990s, the origin and use of Protoculture is explained.  Zor, a young scientist from the planet of Tirol is part of a scientific expedition. One one leg of the survey the Zor lands on the planet Optera, which is the  home of the insect-like Invid race. Zor finds himself in communication with the central intelligence of the Invid and through their telepathic meeting an exhange of information between the two races is achieved. The Invid consciousness learns of Tirolian science and engineering, and Zor learns of the innermost secrets of the Flowers of Life, a flower that dominates the landscape of the planet.

By processing the Flowers of Life the energy source known as Protoculture was created. Due to the greed and growing thirst for power of the Tirolian government, the planet of Optera is almost completely decimated due to Tirolian harvesting of the Flowers of Life. This callous defoliation inspires the Invid to create their immense war machine and attack the Tirolians, aka the Robotech Masters. After the Emperor orders Zor's father killed, Zor decides to destroy the Masters' Protoculture factories. Zor then escapes the Masters, along with the only working Protoculture factory, inside of the experimental SDF-1. This ship soon crashes on Earth and sets the stage for the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotech Robotech]Robotech saga.