==English==

===Noun===
'''punk'''
# {{uncountable}} Wood so decayed as to be dry, crumbly, and useful for tinder; touchwood.
# {{uncountable}} A fungus (''Polyporus fomentarius'', etc.) sometimes dried for tinder; agaric.
# {{uncountable}} An artificial tinder. See [[amadou]] and [[spunk]].
# {{countable}} A [[prostitute]]; a [[strumpet]].
# {{countable}} A person who is unwillingly [[sodomize]]d in prison.
# {{countable}} A homosexual male who is [[penetrate]]d during [[anal sex]].
# {{uncountable}} A social and musical movement rooted in rebelling against the established order.
# {{uncountable}} The music of the punk movement, known for short songs with electric guitars, strong drums, and a direct, [[unproduced]] approach.
# {{countable}} A worthless person.

====Usage Note====
Note: The most common usage is as in [[Punk rock]], the social and musical movement.

====Synonyms====
*(''prostitute''): ''See'' [[WikiSaurus:prostitute]]

===See also===
*{{pedialite}}

====Quotations====
'''worthless person'''
*'''1971''' - I know what you're thinking, '''punk'''. You're thinking, "Did he fire six shots or only five?" Well, to tell you the truth, I've forgotten myself in all this excitement. But being as this is a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world, and would blow your head clean off, you've got to ask yourself a question: Do I feel lucky? Well, do ya '''punk'''? &mdash; Clint Eastword as Harry Callahan in the motion picture ''[[w:Dirty Harry|Dirty Harry]]''

====Examples====

'''A unique person'''
*The '''punk''' went to school with his hair a mohawk and he was wearing a bandana.

===Adjective===
'''punk'''
# Of or pertaining to the [[punk]] social and musical movement or era; as in punk culture, punk rock, punk music, punk style, punk history etc.

===Verb===
'''punk'''

# To perform a [[prank]] upon.
#: ''I got expelled when I punked the principal.''
[[zh:Punk]]