==English==

===Noun===
'''purchase'''
# an individual item one has [[purchased]]
#The act of seeking, getting, or obtaining something (e.g. [[property]], etc.)
#The acquisition of [[title]] to, or property in, anything for a [[price]]; buying for money or its equivalent.
#:''They offer free popcorn with the '''purchase''' of a drink.''
#That which is obtained, got, or acquired, in any manner, honestly or dishonestly; property; possession; acquisition.
#That which is obtained for a price in money or its equivalent.
#:''He was pleased with his latest '''purchase'''.''
#(uncountable) Any [[mechanical]] [[hold]], or [[advantage]], applied to the raising or removing of heavy bodies, as by a [[lever]], a [[tackle]], [[capstan]], and the like
#:''It is hard to get '''purchase''' on a nail without a pry bar or hammer.''
#the [[apparatus]], tackle, or [[device]] by which such mechanical advantage is gained
# ''(rock climbing, uncountable):'' the amount of hold one has from an individual foothold or ledge
#Acquisition of lands or [[tenements]] by other means than [[descent]] or [[inheritance]], namely, by one's own act or agreement.

===Verb===
'''to purchase'''  ([[purchases]], [[purchased]], [[purchasing]])
#To [[pursue]] and [[obtain]]; to [[acquire]] by [[seeking]]; to [[gain]], obtain, or acquire.
#To obtain by paying money or its equivalent; to [[buy]] for a price
#:''to purchase land'', ''to purchase a house''.
#To obtain by any outlay, as of [[labor]], [[danger]], or [[sacrifice]], etc.
#:''to purchase favor with flattery''.
#To [[expiate]] by a [[fine]] or [[forfeit]].
#To apply to (anything) a device for obtaining a mechanical advantage; to get a purchase upon, or apply a purchase to
#:''to purchase a cannon''.
#To put forth effort to obtain anything; to strive; to exert one's self.
#To acquire wealth or property.


==German==

erwerben

==Spanish++

comprar