==English==
===Etymology (run)===
Old Norse ''rás''

===Etymology (group)===
Italian ''[[razza]]''

===Pronunciation===
*/rās/, /reɪs/, /<tt>reIs</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-eɪs|Rhymes: -eɪs]]

===Noun===
'''race''' (''[[countable]] and uncountable''; ''plural'' '''races''')

#A contest between people, animals or vehicles where the goal is to reach some point before all of the others.
#A progressive movement toward a goal.
#A fast moving current of water.
#A group having common ancestors.
#A classification of human beings based on superficial traits such as skin colour, and shape of facial features
#(''uncountable'') Relations between different races (in the sense of classifications of human beings).
#:''Race was a significant issue during apartheid in South Africa.''

====Translations====
*[[Breton]]: [[redadeg]] ''f'' (1), [[red#Breton|red]] ''m'' (3), [[gouenn]] ''f'' (5)
*Chinese: [[比赛]], [[竞赛]], [[竞争]]; [[人类]], [[种族]], [[种]], [[类]]
*Dutch: [[wedstrijd]] ''f'' (1), race ''f'' (1), [[wedloop]] ''m'' (1), [[ras]] ''n'' (5)
*Finnish: [[kilpailu]] (1, 2), [[rotu]] (5)
*French: [[course#French|course]] ''f'' (1), race ''f'' (5)
*German: [[Rennen]] ''n'' (1, 2), [[Rasse]] ''f'' (4, 5)
* {{io}} : [[raso]]
*Indonesian: [[lomba]] / [[pacu]]an (1), [[laju]] (2,3), [[ras]] (4)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[cursa]] (1, 2); [[currente]], [[torrente#Interlingua|torrente]] (3); [[racia]] (4, 5)
*Irish: [[clann]] ''f'' (4)
*Italian: [[corsa#Italian|corsa]] ''f'' (1)
*Japanese: [[競争]] (きょうそう, kyōsō) (1), [[進行]] (しんこう, shinkō) (2), [[人種]] (じんしゅ, jinshu) (4)
*Polish: [[wyścig]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[rasa]] (3, 4)
*Portuguese: [[corrida#Portuguese|corrida]] ''f'' (1,2); [[correnteza]] ''f'', [[torrente#Portuguese|torrente]] ''f'' (3); [[raça]] ''f'' (4, 5)
*Romanian: [[cursă]], [[concurs]] (1)
*Spanish: [[carrera]], [[concurso]] (1), [[raza]] (4, 5)
*Russian: [[гонка]] ''f'', [[гонки]] ''pl''(1, 2), [[раса]] ''f'' (4, 5)

===Intransitive verb===
#To take part in a race (in the sense of a contest).
#To move or drive at high speed.
#:''As soon as it was time to go home, he raced for the door.''
#:''Her heart was racing as she peered into the dimly lit room.''
#Of a motor, to run rapidly when not engaged to a transmission.

==== Translations ====
*[[Breton]]: [[kemer perzh]] en ur [[redadeg]] (1)
*Dutch: [[racen]], [[rennen]], [[wedlopen]]
*Finnish: [[kilpailla]] (1)
*Indonesian: [[lomba]] (1), [[pacu|berpacu]] (1, 2), [[laju|melaju]] (2)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[currer]] (1, 2)
*Italian: [[correre]] (2)
*Japanese: [[競争]]する (きょうそうする, kyōsō-suru), [[競う]] ([[きそう]], kisou) (1)
*Portuguese: [[correr]] (1, 2)

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==French==
===Pronunciation===
*/ʀas/, /<tt>Ras</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:French:-as|Rhymes: -as]]

===Noun===
'''race''' ''f''

# race (''classification'')
# [[kind]]

===Synonyms===
*[[espèce]]

===Related terms===
*[[racial]]
*[[racisme]]
*[[raciste]]

[[nl:race]]