==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===
From [[w:Old English language|Old English]][[category:Old English derivations]] refreinen, [[w:Old French|Old French]][[Category:Old French derivations]] refrener, [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] refrener, from [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] refrenare; influenced by [[w:Old French|Old French]][[Category:Old French derivations]] refraindre (meaning ''to [[restrain]], [[moderate]]''), from [[w:Late Latin|Late Latin]][[Category:Late Latin derivations]] refrangere, for [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] refringere (meaning ''to break up, [[break]]'' (see [[refract]]). [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] refrenare is from prefix [[re-]] (''back'') + [[frenum]] (''bridle''); compare [[w:Sanskrit language|Sanskrit]][[Category:Sanskrit derivations]] dh (''to [[hold]]'').

===Transitive verb===
'''to refrain'''
#To [[hold]] back; to restrain; to keep within prescribed [[bounds]]; to [[curb]]; to [[govern]]. 
#:''His reson refraineth not his foul delight or talent.'' [[w:Geoffrey_Chaucer|Chaucer]][[Category:Chaucer Quotes]]
#:''Refrain thy foot from their path.'' Proverbs i. 15.
#To abstain from
#:''Who, requiring a remedy for his gout, received no other counsel than to refrain cold drink.''  Sir T. Browne.



<!-- from Webster:

Refrain (Page: 1208)
Re*frain" (r?*fr?n"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Refrained (-fr?nd"); p. pr. & vb/ n. Refraining.] [OE. refreinen, OF. refrener, F. refrner, fr. L. refrenare; influenced by OF. refraindre to restrain, moderate, fr. LL. refrangere, for L. refringere to break up, break (see Refract). L. refrenare is fr. pref. re- back + frenum bridle; cf. Skr. dh to hold.] 

1. To hold back; to restrain; to keep within prescribed bounds; to curb; to govern. 

His reson refraineth not his foul delight or talent. Chaucer.
Refrain thy foot from their path. Prov. i. 15.
2. To abstain from [Obs.] 

Who, requiring a remedy for his gout, received no other counsel than to refrain cold drink. Sir T. Browne.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Refrain (Page: 1208)
Re*frain", v. i. To keep one's self from action or interference; to hold aloof; to forbear; to abstain. 

Refrain from these men, and let them alone. Acts v. 38.
They refrained therefrom [eating flesh] some time after. Sir T. Browne.
Syn. -- To hold back; forbear; abstain; withhold. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Refrain (Page: 1208)
Re*frain", n. [F. refrain, fr. OF. refraindre; cf. Pr. refranhs a refrain, refranher to repeat. See Refract,Refrain, v.] The burden of a song; a phrase or verse which recurs at the end of each of the separate stanzas or divisions of a poetic composition. 

We hear the wild refrain. Whittier.

-->