==English==

===Noun===
'''rock''' (plural [[rocks]])
#A relatively small to moderate sized piece of [[stone]].
#Abbreviation of [[rock and roll]], a style of popular music.
#(''Uncountable or mass noun'') The substance that stones are made of (whilst solid). (''The face of the cliff is solid rock.'')
# A large grassless hill or island.
#A type of hard [[candy]] in the form of a stick (UK).
#Someone who comforts another person.
#A swing forward or back.
#(slang, American): A crystalized lump of crack cocaine

====Translations====
*Czech: [[skála]] ''f'' (1, 3)
*Dutch: [[steen]] ''m'' (1,3), rock ''m'' (2), [[kandij]] (5), [[suikerstok]] (5)
*Finnish: [[kivi]] (1, 3); [[rokki]], [[rock]] (2)
*French: [[roche]] ''m'' (1), rock ''m'' (2)
*German: [[Stein]] ''m'' (1), [[Gestein]] ''m'' (3), [[Kandiszucker]] ''m'' (5)
*Greek: [[πέτρο]] (1)
*Interlingua: [[rocca]] (1,3); rock (2)
*{{ga}}: [[carraig]] ''f2''
*Italian: [[roccia]] ''f'' (1), rock ''m'' (2)
*Latin: [[petrus]] (1), rock (2)
*Portuguese: [[rocha]] ''f'' (1,3); rock ''m'' (2)
*Romanian: [[piatră]] ''f'', [[rocă]] ''f''
*Russian: [[скала]] ''f'' (skala)
*{{sk}}: [[skala#Slovak|skala]] ''f'' (1, 3)
*Slovene: [[skala]] ''f'' (1, 3), [[rock]] ''m'' (2), [[kamenina]] ''f'' (3)

===Intransitive verb===
'''rock''' ([[rocked]], rocked)

#To play, perform, or enjoy rock and roll music, especially with a lot of skill or with a lot of energy.
#(''Slang'') To be something favourable, skillful or positive: to be superlatively good. e.g. "Chocolate rocks."
#To [[swing]] back and forth.  (''The boat rocked at anchor.'')

====Antonyms====
* to [[suck]] (2)

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[wiegen]] (3), [[schommelen]] (3)
*Finnish: [[rokata]] (1, 2); [[jyrätä]] (2); [[keinua]] (3)
*German: [[schwanken]] (3)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[sonar]] rock (1); [[exceller]] (2); [[balanciar]] [[se]], [[oscillar]], [[vacillar]] (3)
*Portuguese: [[tocar]] rock (1); [[ser]] [[excelente]], [[ser]] [[ótimo]] (2); [[balançar]](-[[se]]), [[oscilar]], [[vacilar]] (3)
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[bibi]]

===Transitive verb===
#To [[move]] (something) back and forth.  (''Rock the baby to sleep.'')

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[wiegen]]
*Finnish: [[keinuttaa]]
*French: [[bercer]]
*German: [[erschüttern]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[balanciar]], (a baby in a cradle:) [[cunar]]
*Portuguese: [[balançar]], (a baby:) [[embalar]]

===Related terms===
*[[rocker]]
*[[rocking chair]]
*[[rock and roll]]

----
==German==
===Noun===
'''Rock''' ''m'' (plural [[Röcke]])

# A [[skirt]] (women's garment).