==English==
=== Noun ===
'''root''' (''plural'' '''roots''')

# The part of a plant, generally underground, which absorbs water and nutrients.
# The part of a tooth extending into the bone holding the tooth in place
# Source.
#: ''The love of money is the root of all evil''
# (''mathematics'') Of a number ''n'', a positive number which, when raised to a specified power, yields ''n''; the [[square root]] is understood if no power is specified (in which case, ''the root of'' is often abbreviated to ''root'')
#: ''The cube root of 27 is 3''
#: ''Multiply by root 2''
# (''mathematics'') A [[zero]] (of a function).
# (''mathematics'') A designated node in a tree.
# (''philology'') A word from which another word is derived.
# (''Australian vulgar slang'') An act of [[fornication]].
#:Note: This word is somewhat milder than ''[[fuck]]'' but still quite coarse.
# (''Australian vulgar slang'') A sexual partner.
#:Note: This word is somewhat milder than ''[[fuck]]'' but still quite coarse.

====Synonyms====
*(2): [[basis]], [[origin]], [[source]]
*(4): [[zero]]
*(6): [[etymon]]
*(8 vulgar slang): [[screw]] (''US''), [[shag]] (''British'') - see [[WikiSaurus:sexual intercourse]]

==== Translations ====
*Arabic: [[‎جذر|جَذْرٌ]] (džaðr) ''m''; [[‎جذور|جُذُور]] (džuðúːr) ''pl''
*Bulgarian: [[корен]] (koren) ''m''
*Catalan: [[arrel]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[根]] (gēn)
*Croatian: [[koren]] ''m''
*Czech: [[kořen]] ''m''
*Danish: [[rod#Danish|rod]]
*Dutch: [[wortel]]
*Finnish: [[juuri]]
*French: [[racine]] ''f''
*Galician: [[raíz]] ''f''
*German: [[Wurzel]] ''f'', [[Wurzeln]] ''pl''
*Greek: [[ρίζα]] (ríza) ''f''
*Hebrew: [[שורש]] (šóreš) ''m''
*Hungarian: [[gyökér]]
*Icelandic: [[rót]]
*Indonesian: [[akar]]
*Italian: [[radice]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[根]] ([[ね]], ne)
*Korean: [[뿌리]] (ppuri)
*Latin: [[radix]] ''f''
*Norwegian: [[rot#Norwegian|rot]]
*Occitan: [[raiç]] ''f''
*{{pl}}: [[korzeń]] ''m'' (1,5), [[źródło]] ''n'' (2), [[pierwiastek]] ''m'' (3,4)
*Portuguese: [[raiz]] ''f''
*Russian: [[корень]] (kóren') ''m'', [[корни]] (kórni) ''pl''; [[коренья]] (korén'ja) ''pl (roots for cooking)''
*Serbian: [[корен]] (koren) ''m''
*Slovene: [[korenina]] ''f'' (1), [[koren]] ''m'' (3,6)
*Spanish: [[raíz]] ''f'', [[raíces]] ''pl'' (with all these senses)
*Swahili: [[mzizi]], [[mizizi]] ''(noun class 4)''
*Swedish: [[rot#Swedish|rot]] ''c'', [[rötter]] ''pl'' (1,3,4,6), [[källa]] (2), [[nollställe]] (4)
*[[Tagalog]]: [[ugat]]
*Turkish: [[kök]]
*Ukrainian: [[корінь]] (kórin') ''m'', [[корені]] (koréni) ''pl''

===Verb===
'''to root''' ([[roots]], [[rooted]], [[rooting]])

# To [[fornicate]]
#:Note: This word is somewhat milder than ''[[fuck]]'' but still quite coarse.

====Synonyms====
*[[screw]] (''US''), [[shag]] (''British'') - See [[WikiSaurus:sexual intercourse]]

=== Related terms ===
*[[square root]]
*[[cube root]]
*[[functional root]]
*[[root about]]
*[[root canal]]
*[[root cause]]
*[[rooted]]
*[[root for]]
*[[roots]]
*[[roots music]]
*[[rootsy]]
*[[strictly roots]]
*[[take root]]
*[[taproot]]