A '''rule of thumb''' is a criterion based on experience and common sense or a general principle regarded as roughly correct but not intended to be scientifically accurate. [editors comment: I don't know how this works, but this definitions, it seems, is copied from the Merriam-Websters dictionary: http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=Rule+of+thumb] Compare this to [[heuristic]], a similar concept used in [[mathematics|mathematical discourse]],  or in [[computer science]], particularly in [[algorithm]] design. See also [[mnemonic]].

The term "rule of thumb" or similar exists in many languages and cultures. Its likely origin is that the thumb is often used for rough measurement by carpenters, seamstresses, and many others.  Rules of thumb such as the [[right hand rule]] in [[electromagnetics]] are also used as [[mnemonic]] devices. This usage of course is of more recent vintage.

A widespread myth holds that the term originally referred to the maximum size of a stick with which it was permissible for a man to beat his wife. This myth has been thoroughly debunked, for instance by [[Christina Hoff Sommers]] in her book ''[[Who Stole Feminism?]]'' ([[1994]] ISBN 0684801566). The myth is thought to have been invented by [[Del Martin]] of the [[National Organization for Women]] (NOW) in [[1976]] and continues to be spread to this day.

== See also ==
*[[Heuristic argument]]
*[[Tooth Fairy Rule]]

== External links ==
*[http://www.canlaw.com/rights/thumbrul.htm About the Rule of Thumb]
*[http://www.debunker.com/texts/ruleofthumb.html The "Rule of Thumb for Wife-Beating" Hoax]