==English==
===Pronunciation===
*să'mən, /ˈsæmən/, /"s{m@n/

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[salmo]]'', leaper

===Noun===
'''salmon''' (''see individual senses for plurals'')

#(''plural'' '''salmon''') One of [[several]] [[specie]]s of [[fish]] of the ''Salmonidae'' family.
#(''plural'' '''salmons''') A [[yellowish]] [[pink]] [[colour]]/[[color]], the colour of cooked salmon.

====Derived terms====
*[[salmon trout]]

====Translations====

'''fish'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Catalan: [[salmó]] ''m''
*French: [[saumon]] ''m''
*German: [[Lachs]] ''m''
*[[Interlingua]]: salmon
*Italian: [[salmone]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[salmão]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''colour/color'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Catalan: [[salmó]] ''m''
*[[Interlingua]]: salmon
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Portuguese: [[salmão]] ''m''
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.
*Basque: [[izokin]]
*Bosnian: [[losos]] ''m'' (1), [[blijedocrvena]] ''f'' (2)
*Breton: [[eog]] ''m'' -ed ''pl'' (1)
*Czech: losos  ''m''
*Dutch: [[zalm]] ''m'' (1), [[zalmkleur]] (2)
*Finnish: [[lohi]] (1), [[lohenpunainen]] (2)
*Indonesian: salmon
*Japanese: [[鮭]] (さけ, sake; しゃけ, shake)
*Lithuanian: [[lašiša]] ''f''
*[[Central Sierra Miwok]]: [[kóˑsomu-]]
*Polish: łosoś ''m''
*Romanian: [[somon]] ''m'' (1)
*Slovene: [[losos]] ''m'' (1)
*Spanish: [[salmón]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[arrebol]] (2)

===Adjective===
'''salmon'''

#Of food, made with salmon.
#Having a yellowish pink colour/color.

====Translations====

'''made with salmon'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Interlingua: [[de]] salmon
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''having a yellowish pink colour/color'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Interlingua: de [[color]] salmon
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Basque: [[izokinezko]] (1), izokin koloreko (2)
*Bosnian: [[od lososa]] (1), [[blijedocrven]] ''m'' (2)
*Catalan: [[salmonat]] ''m'' (2), [[salmonada]] ''f'' (2)
*Dutch: [[zalmkleurig]]
*Finnish: [[lohenpunainen]] (2)
*German: [[lachsfarben]] (2), [[lachs]] (2)
*Polish: [[łososiowy]] ''m'', [[łososiowa]] ''f'', [[łososiowe]] ''n'' (1), łososiowy (kolor) ''m'' (2)
*Portuguese: [[de]] [[salmão]] (1), [[salmão]] ''m'' & ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[asalmonado]] ''m'' (2), [[asalmonada]] ''f'' (2)

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Wiktionary appendix of colours]]
*[[w:salmon|Wikipedia article on salmon]]

[[Category:English fish]]

[[pl:Salmon]]