==English==

===Noun===
# A design associated with a government or governmental office.
#: ''The front of the podium bore the presidential seal.''
# Something which will be visibly damaged if a covering or container is opened, and which may or may not bear an official design.
#: ''The result was declared invalid, as the seal on the meter had been broken.''
# Something designed to prevent liquids or gasses from leaking through a joint.
#: ''The canister is leaking.  I think the main seal needs to be replaced.''
# (''generally singular'') Security against leakage.
#: ''Close the lid tightly to get a good seal.''
# A type of [[pinniped]], a large marine fish-eating mammal.
#: ''The seals in the harbor looked better than they smelled.''
[[Category:Mammals]]

====Translations====

'''design'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Finnish: [[tunnus]]
*French: [[sceau]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Italian: [[sigillo]]
*Japanese: [[判]], [[印章]], [[璽]]
|}
|}

'''something which will be visibly damaged'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Finnish: [[sinetti]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
|}
|}

'''something designed to prevent liquids or gasses from leaking'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Finnish: [[tiiviste]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
|}
|}

'''security against leakage'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Finnish: [[sinetti]], [[tiiviys]]
*German: [[Siegel]]
*Italian: [[sigillo]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Japanese: [[封]], [[封印]], [[封緘]]
*Swedish: [[sigill]]
|}
|}

'''marine mammal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Finnish: [[hylje]]
*French: [[phoque]] ''f''
*German: [[Robbe]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[fóka]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Italian: [[foca]]
*Japanese: [[海豹]] ([[あざらし]]); [[おっとせい]]
*Lithuanian: [[ruonis]] ''m''
*Norwegian: [[sel]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[säl]]
|}
|}

===Transitive verb===
# To prevent from being opened without visible damage.
#: ''The cover is sealed.  If anyone tries to open it, we'll know about it''
# To prevent people or vehicles from crossing.
#: ''The border has been sealed until the fugitives are found.''
# To close securely to prevent leakage.
#: ''I've sealed the bottle to keep the contents fresh.''
# To place in a sealed container.
#: ''I've sealed the documents in this envelope.''
# (''chess'') To place a notation of ones next move in a sealed envelope to be opened after an adjournment.
#: ''After thinking for half an hour, the champion sealed his move.''

====Translations====
'''prevent from being opened'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages A to I-->
*Finnish: [[sinetöidä]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages J to Z-->
|}
|}

'''prevent people or vehicles from crossing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages A to I-->
*Finnish: [[sulkea]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages J to Z-->
|}
|}

'''close securely'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages A to I-->
*Finnish: [[sulkea]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages J to Z-->
|}
|}

'''place in a sealed container'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages A to I-->
*Finnish: [[sinetöidä]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages J to Z-->
|}
|}

'''chess term'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages A to I-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages J to Z-->
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[lips are sealed]]
*[[presidential seal]]
*[[royal seal]]
*[[official seal]]
*[[seal ones fate]]
*[[seal of approval]]

===See also===
*[[sea lion]]
*[[stamp]]
*[[walrus]]

[[ang:Seal]]
[[io:Seal]]
[[it:seal]]
[[ja:seal]]