==English==

===Verb===

'''to serve'''

#To work for; to labor in behalf of; to exert one's self continuously or statedly for the benefit of; to do service for; to be in the employment of, as an inferior, domestic, serf, slave, hired assistant, official helper, etc.; specifically, in a religious sense, to obey and worship.
#To be subordinate to; to act a secondary part under; to appear as the inferior of; to minister to.
#To be suitor to; to profess love to.
#To wait upon; to supply the wants of; to attend; specifically, to wait upon at table; to attend at meals; to supply with food; as, to serve customers in a shop.
#Hence, to bring forward, arrange, deal, or distribute, as a portion of anything, especially of food prepared for eating; -- often with up; formerly with in.
#To perform the duties belonging to, or required in or for; hence, to be of use to; as, a curate may serve two churches; to serve one's country.
#To contribute or conduce to; to promote; to be sufficient for; to satisfy; as, to serve one's turn.
#To answer or be (in the place of something) to; as, a sofa serves one for a seat and a couch.
#To treat; to behave one's self to; to requite; to act toward; as, he served me very ill.
#To work; to operate; as, to serve the guns.
#To bring to notice, deliver, or execute, either actually or constructively, in such manner as the law requires; as, to serve a summons.
#To make legal service opon (a person named in a writ, summons, etc.); as, to serve a witness with a subp/na.
#To pass or spend, as time, esp. time of punishment; as, to serve a term in prison.
#To copulate with; to cover; as, a horse serves a mare; -- said of the male.
#To lead off in delivering (the ball).
#To wind spun yarn, or the like, tightly around (a rope or cable, etc.) so as to protect it from chafing or from the weather. See under Serving.
#To be a servant or a slave; to be employed in labor or other business for another; to be in subjection or bondage; to render menial service.
#To perform domestic offices; to be occupied with household affairs; to prepare and dish up food, etc.
#To be in service; to do duty; to discharge the requirements of an office or employment. Specifically, to act in the public service, as a soldier, seaman. etc.
#To be of use; to answer a purpose; to suffice; to suit; to be convenient or favorable.
#To lead off in delivering the ball.