==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'sεt/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'sEt/

=== Transitive verb ===

'''to set''' (set, set)

# to put (something) down, to rest.  (''Set the tray there.'')
# to punch a nail into wood so that its head is below the surface.
# to arrange with dishes and cutlery. (''set the table'')
# to introduce (''set the scene'')
# to backdrop (''set in France'')
# (with ''out'') to recount or display a narrative or argument (''she set out her concerns.'')
# determined to start ('get set', 'set on getting somewhere') 
# to make (in the sense of crossword puzzles)
# to prepare a stage or film set.
# to fit someone up in a situation.

==== Translations ====
*Bulgarian: [[поставям]], [[слагам]] (1)
*Dutch: [[zetten]], [[instellen]]
*Finnish: [[asettaa]] (1)
*French: [[mettre]], [[preparer]]
*German: [[setzen]] (1), [[decken]] (3)
*Indonesian: [[atur|mengatur]], [[pasang|memasang]], [[pas|mempaskan]], [[tepat|menepatkan]]
*Interlingua: [[poner]], [[deponer]] (1), [[clavar]] (2), [[arrangiar]], [[preparar]] (3)
*Japanese: [[セット]]する (setto-suru)
*Portuguese: [[pôr]], [[colocar]] (1); [[cravar]], [[pregar]] (2); [[pôr]], [[arrumar]], [[preparar]] (3)
*Romanian: [[seta]], [[instala]]
*Slovak: [[položiť]] (1)
*Swedish: [[sätta]] (1), [[sänka]] (2), [[försänka]] (2), [[duka]] (3)
*Vietnamese: [[để]] (1), [[làm#Vietnamese|làm]] (3)

=== Intransitive verb ===

'''to set''' (set, set)

# to solidify. (''The glue sets in 4 minutes.'')
# (with ''out'') to start.  (''He set out to break the world record.'')
# (of a heavenly body) to sink below the horizon.

==== Translations ====

*Bulgarian: [[втвърдявам]] (1), [[започвам]], [[почвам]] (2)
*Dutch: [[harden]]
*Finnish: [[kovettua]] (1), [[lähteä]] (2), [[laskea]] (3)
*German: [[härten]] (1)
*Interlingua: [[solidificar]] se (1)
*Portuguese: [[solidificar]]-se (1)
*Slovak: [[usadnúť]] (1), [[zapadnúť]] (3)
*Swedish: [[stelna]] (1), [[gå ned]]/[[gå ner]] (3)
*Vietnamese: [[đi]] (2)

=== Verb ===
'''set'''
# past tense of ''to set''
==== Translations ====
*[[Dutch]]: [[zette]], [[zetten]], [[stelde in]], [[stelden in]]
*Swedish: [[satte]], [[sänkte]], [[försänkte]], [[dukade]]

=== Verb ===
'''set'''
# past participle of ''to set''
==== Translations ====
*[[Dutch]]: [[gezet]], [[ingesteld]]
*Swedish: [[satt]], [[sänkt]], [[försänkt]], [[dukat#Swedish|dukat]]

=== Noun ===
'''set'''
# A [[match]]ing [[collection]] of [[something]], usually all of the collection.
# (''[[Mathematics]]'') A collection of mathematical [[object]]s ([[element]]s) often having a common property.
#A group of people, usually meeting together socially (''the country set'').
# A [[punch]] for setting [[nail]]s in [[wood]] (''nail set'').
# The [[scenery]] for a [[film]] or [[play]].
# (''In dancing'') The initial or basic [[formation]] of [[dancer]]s.
# A number of games in tennis.
# A broadcast recieving device, like a tv or radio.
# (in plural) the mathematics of putting things into collections.
# (also '''sett''') a hole for a badger or similar animal.
# denoting a object in several parts (similar to [[pair]]) ''a set of steps''.
==== Translations ====
*Bulgarian: [[комплект]] ''m'' (1), [[множество]] ''n'' (2)
*Chinese: [[集]], [[集合]]
*Dutch: [[verzameling]] (1,2), set (5)
*Esperanto: [[aro]] (1)
*Finnish: [[joukko]] (1-3)
*French:  [[ensemble]] ''m'' (2)
*German: [[Menge]] ''f'' (2)
*Interlingua: [[collection]] (1), [[insimul]] (2), [[scena]] (5)
*Italian: [[insieme]] ''m'' (2)
*Latvian: [[kolekcija]] (1), [[kopa]] (2), [[scenārijs]] (5), [[uztvērējs]] (8)
*Portuguese: [[conjunto]] ''m'' (1,2); [[cenário]] (5)
*Romanian: [[mulţime]] ''f'' (1)
*Slovak: [[sada]] ''f'' (1), [[množina]] ''f'' (2), [[skupina]] ''f'' (3), [[scéna]] ''f'' (5)
*Swedish: [[mängd]] (2), set ''n'' (1,7), [[apparat]] (8), [[gryt]] (10), [[steg]] (11)
*Vietnamese: [[bộ]] (1)

=== Adjective ===
'''set'''
# [[Ready]], [[prepared]].
# Normal (''a set menu'')

====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[klaar]]
*Finnish: [[valmis]] (1), [[tavallinen]] (2)
*[[German]]: [[fertig]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[preparate]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[pronto]], [[preparado]]
*Swedish: [[färdig]] (1), [[redo]] (1)

=== Proper noun ===
'''Set''' (also '''Seth''')

# An ancient Egyptian [[god]], variously described as the god of [[chaos]], the god of [[thunder]] and [[storms]], or the god of [[destruction]].

==== Translations ====
*[[Slovak]]: [[Sét]] ''m''

----
==German==
===Noun===
'''Set''' ''n''

# Place mat.
----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''set''' ''n'' (''pl'' '''set''', ''def sing'' [[setet]], ''def pl'' [[seten]])

#Matching collection of items
#A number of games in tennis

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[it:set]]
[[pt:Set]]
[[ru:Set]]
[[fi:Set]]
[[sv:set]]