==English==
===Pronunciation===
* [[IPA]] /'saɪd/
===Noun===
'''side'''

#A bounding straight [[edge]] of an object.
#:''A square has four sides.''
#A flat surface of a solid object.
#:''A cube has six sides.''
#The left or right half of something.
#:''Which side of the tray shall I put it on?''
#A region in a specified position with respect to something.
#:''Meet me on the north side of the monument.''
#One surface of a sheet of paper (used instead of "page", which can mean one or both surfaces)
#:''John wrote 15 sides for his essay!''
#One possible aspect of a concept.
#:''Look on the bright side.''
#One set of competitors in a game.
#:''Which side has kick-off?''
#A group having a particular [[allegiance]] in a war.
#:''In the second world war, the Italians were on the side of the Germans.''
#(''dated British'') A television [[channel]] (usually meaning either [[w:BBC1|BBC1]] or [[w:ITV1|ITV1]])
#The thin circle of material attatched to the underside of a drum shell, affecting acoustics and allowing control thereof with tuning.
#:''I like tuning my snare-side up. ''

====Synonyms====
*(''bounding straight edge of an object''): [[edge]]
*(''flat surface of an object''): [[face]]
*(''left or right half''): [[half]]
*(''surface of a sheet of paper''): [[page]]
*(''region in a specified position with respect to something''):
*(''one possible aspect of a concept''):
*(''set of opponents in a game''): [[team]]
*(''group having a particular allegiance in a war''):
*(''television channel''): [[channel]], [[station]] (''US'')

====Translations====

'''bounding straight edge of an object'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!-- A to I here-->
*Cantonese: 侧面/側面 (jak1 min6)
*Chinese: 侧面/側面 (cè miàn)
*Dutch: zijde
*French: [[côté]] ''m''
*German: Seite
*[[Ido]]: [[latero]]
*Italian: [[lato]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!-- J to Z here-->
*Persian: طرف
*{{no}}: [[:no:side|side]]
*{{ru}}: [[сторона]]
*Spanish: cara
*Turkish: yüz
|}
|}

'''flat surface of an object'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[face#French|face]] ''f''
*Italian: [[faccia]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*{{no}}: [[:no:side|side]]
*{{ru}}: [[сторона]]
*Turkish: yüz
|}
|}

'''left or right half'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*{{no}}: [[:no:side|side]]

|}
|}

'''surface of a sheet of paper'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Arabic: صـــفحة
*Cantonese: 頁 (yip6)
*Chinese: 页/頁 (yè)
*Esperanto: paĝo
*French: page
*German: Seite
*Greek: σελίδα (selída)
*Hindi: पृष्ठ (parṣṭha)
*Icelandic: blaðsíða
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: 面 (めん/men)
*Latin: pagina
*Norwegian: side
*Russian: страница (stranica)
*Sanskrit: पृष्ठ (parṣṭha)
*Spanish: página
*Swedish: sida
|}
|}

'''region in a specified position with respect to something'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''one possible aspect of a concept'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Italian: [[lato]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''set of opponents in a game'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[équipe]] ''f''
*Italian: [[squadra]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''group having a particular allegiance in a war'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''television channel'''
''See'' [[channel]]

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.

*[[Catalan]]: [[costat]] ''m''

===Derived terms===
*[[countryside]]
*[[offside]]
*[[seaside]]
*[[sideboard]]
*[[sidecar]]
*[[sidelong]]
*[[sideways]]
*[[sidewinder]]
*[[side with]]
*[[siding]]
*[[upside down]]

===Related terms===
*[[aside]]
*[[inside]]
*[[outside]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[io:Side]]
[[it:side]]
[[no:Side]]
[[sv:side]]