Traditionally, a long, waist-high sturdy serving cabinet placed in the dining room along''side'' the dinner table. The construction would be densely made and generally include depth enough for some number of cabinets and drawers for additional storage. Also known as a "buffet," and the original source of our modern understanding and use of buffet dining in restaurants.

Often covered in a dining linens (a lace runner, for example, in Victorian times), and used for placing dishes during meals. Servants or hosts, often the lady of the house, would fetch dishes from the sideboard and serve diners at the dining table when requested. The food was kept hot and under cover, ready to be eaten, without needing to return to the kitchen. As an example, during tea the sideboard would present trays of waiting tea sandwiches, scones, fresh pots of tea, etc.

Again, this meets with our modern understanding of buffet dining, where food is kept hot in chafing dishes or in covered containers; however, traditional use emphasized being served from the sideboard, rather than a diner serving themselves.

Also used to display fine china, floral arrangements, portraits, or servingware when not in use for a meal. 

In modern use, most commonly used for particularly large, formal, or specialty dinners; if used more casually, diners would serve themselves. Otherwise the sideboard might be used for additional dinnerware storage, particularly formal dinnerware and serving utensils (fine silverware, unique serving pieces such as gravy boats and crystal cake pedestals, etc.).