==English==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[saɪn]}}
===Homophones===
*[[sine]]
===Etymology===
From Latin '''[[signum]]''', ''sign''

===Noun===
'''sign'''  (''plural:'' [[signs]])
# (''sometimes also used uncountably'') A visible indication.
#: ''Their angry expressions were a clear sign they didn't want to talk.''
#: ''Those clouds show signs of raining soon.''
#: ''Those clouds show little sign of raining soon.''
# A clearly visible object, generally flat, bearing a short message in words or pictures.
#: ''The sign in the window said "for rent".''
# A [[traffic sign]].
#: ''I missed the sign at the corner so I took the wrong turn.''
# A meaningful gesture.
#: ''I gave them a thumbs-up sign.''
# Any of several specialized non-alphabetic symbols.
#: ''The sharp sign indicates that the pitch of the note is raised a half step.''
# An [[astrological sign]].
#: ''Your sign is Taurus?  That's no surprise.''
# (''mathematics'') Positive or negative polarity.
#: ''I got the magnitude right, but the sign was wrong.''
# A linguistic unit in [[sign language]] equivalent to [[word]] in spoken [[language]]s.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[merkki]] (1, 4, 5, 6, 7), [[osoitus]] (1), [[kyltti]] (2), [[kilpi]] (2), [[liikennemerkki]] (3), [[ele#Finnish|ele]] (4), [[viittoma]] (8)

====Related terms====
* [[astrological sign]]
* [[high sign]]
* [[plus sign]]
* [[minus sign]]
* [[neon sign]]
* [[road sign]]
* [[sign language]]
* [[signs of life]]
* [[signage]]
* [[signatory]]
* [[signature]]
* [[star sign]]
* [[street sign]]
* [[traffic sign]]
<!--* [[a sign of the times]]-->

===Transitive verb===
'''to sign'''  ([[signs]], [[signed]], [[signing]])
# To write one's signature on a document, thus showing authorship.
#: ''I forgot to sign that letter to my aunt.''
# To give legal consent by writing one's signature.
#: ''I'm not signing anything without my lawyer present.''
# Persuade to sign a contract.
#: ''It was a great month.  I managed to sign three major players.''

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[allekirjoittaa]] (1, 2), [[rekrytoida]] (3)

===Intransitive verb===
'''to sign'''  ([[signs]], [[signed]], [[signing]])
# To write one's signature.
#: ''Please sign on the dotted line.''
# (''colloquial'') To give autographs.
#: ''I'm sorry, I don't sign.''
# To communicate using sign language.
#: ''I'm learning to sign so I can talk to my new neighbor.''

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[allekirjoittaa]] (1), [[kirjoittaa]] [[nimi]] (1), [[antaa]] [[allekirjoitus]] (2), [[viittoa]] (3)

===Related terms===
* [[sign in]]
* [[sign off]]
* [[sign on]]
* [[sign over]]
* [[sign out]]
* [[sign up]]
<!--* [[sign one's life away]] / [[enlist]]-->

[[pl:Sign]]
[[ru:Sign]]