*'''Chemical element''': '''[[Ag]]''' (Atomic Number: 47)
**Previous: [[Palladium|Pd]]
**Next: [[Cadmium|Cd]]

----
==English==
===Etymology===
From Middle English, from Old English [[siolfor]], [[seolfor]].

===Noun===
'''silver''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''silvers''')

#(''uncountable'') A [[lustrous]], white, [[metallic]] [[element]], [[atomic number]] 47, [[atomic weight]] 107.87, symbol Ag.
#(''collectively'') Coins made from silver or any similar white metal.
#(''collectively'') [[Cutlery]], whether silver or made from some other white metal.
#(''collectively'') Any items made from silver or any other white metal.
#(''countable'') A shiny [[gray]]/[[grey]] color/colour.

==== Translations ====

'''metal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Afrikaans: [[silwer]]
*Albanian: [[argjent]]
*Arabic: [[فضة]]
*Armenian: (asime)
*[[Basque]]: [[zilarra]]
*Belarusian: [[Серабро]]
*Bosnian: [[srebro]]
*[[Breton]]: [[arc'hant]] ''m''
*Bulgarian: [[сребро]] ''n''
*[[Catalan]]: [[plata]] ''f'', [[argent]] ''m''
*Chinese Characters: [[銀]]
*Chinese: [[銀]]
*[[Cornish]]: [[arhans]]
*Croatian: [[srebro]]
*Czech: [[stříbro]]
*Danish: [[sølv]]
*Dutch: [[zilver]] ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[arĝento]]
*Estonian: [[hõbe]]
*[[Faroese]]: [[silvur]]
*Finnish: [[hopea]]
*French: [[argent]] ''m''
*[[Frisian]]: [[sulver]]
*[[Friulian]]: [[arint]]
*[[Galician]]: [[prata]]
*Georgian: [[ვერცxლი]]
*German: [[Silber]] ''n''
*Greek, Modern: [[Αργυρος]]
*[[Guarani]]: [[itatĩ]]
*Hebrew: [[כסף|כֶּסֶף]]
*Hungarian: [[ezüst]]
*Icelandic: [[silfur]]
*Indonesian: [[perak]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[argento]]
*[[Irish Gaelic]]: [[airgead]]
*Italian: [[argento]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[銀]] (ぎん, gin)
*[[Kashmiri]]: [[strzébro]]
*Kazakh: [[Кüмис]]
*Latin: [[argentum]]
*Latvian: [[sudrabs]]
*Lithuanian: [[sidabras]]
*[[Luxembourgish]]: [[sëlwer]]
*Macedonian: [[Сребро]]
*Malay: [[argentum,]]
*Maltese: [[fidda]]
*[[Manx]]: [[argid]]
*Mongolian: [[Мөнгө]]
*Norwegian: [[sølv]]
*Polish: [[srebro]]
*Portuguese: [[prata]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[argint]] ''n''
*Russian: [[серебро]] (serebro)
*[[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[airgead]]
*Serbian: [[Сребро]]
*Slovak: [[striebro]] ''n''
*Slovenian: [[srebro]]
*Spanish: [[plata]] ''f''
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[itatinga]]
*Swedish: silver
*Tajik: [[nukra]]
*Thai: [[เงิน]]
*Turkish: [[gümüş]]
*Ukrainian: [[Срiбло]]
*Uzbek: [[Кумуш]]
*Vietnamese: [[bạc]]
*Welsh: [[arian]]
|}
|}

'''coins'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''cutlery'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''items made of silver or other white metal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''color/colour'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Dutch: [[zilverwerk]] ''n'' (3)
*[[Interlingua]]: ([[moneta]] de) [[argento]] (2)<!--this needs to be in the plural-->; [[argenteria]] (3)
*Portuguese: ([[moeda]] ''f'' de) [[prata]] ''f''<!--this needs to be in the plural--> (2); [[prataria]] ''f'' (3)
*Romanian: [[argint]] ''m'' (2); [[argint&#259;rie]] ''f''

====External links====
*[[w:en:silver|Wikipedia article on silver]]
*For etymology and more information refer to:
http://elements.vanderkrogt.net/elem/ag.html
(A lot of the translations were taken from that site with permission from the author)

===Adjective===
'''silver''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#Made from silver.
#Made from another white metal.
#Having a colour like silver: a shiny gray/grey.

<div style="background-color:#C0C0C0; width:100px; height:25px;text-align:center">&nbsp;</div>silver color

====Synonyms====
*(''having a colour like silver''): [[silvery]]

====Translations====

'''made from silver'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[hopeinen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''made from another white metal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''having a colour like silver'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*[[Breton]]: [[arc'hant]]
*Bulgarian: [[сребърен]] ''m'', сребърна ''f'', сребърно ''n'', сребърни ''pl''
*[[Catalan]]: [[platejat]] ''m'', [[platejada]] ''f'', [[argentat]] ''m'', [[argentada]] ''f''
*Danish: [[sølvfarvet]]
*Dutch: [[zilverkleurig]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[arĝentkolora]]
*Finnish: [[hopeanvärinen]], [[hopeinen]]
*French: [[argenté]]
*German: [[silbern]], [[silberfarbig]]
*Hebrew: [[כסף|כֶּסֶף]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[argentee]], [[argentin]]
*Italian: [[argento]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[銀色]] (ぎんいろ, gin-iro)
*Polish: [[srebrny]] ''m'', [[srebrna]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[prata]] ''m'' & ''f''; [[prateado]] ''m'', prateada ''f''; [[argênteo]] ''m'', argêntea ''f''; [[argentino]] ''m'', argentina ''f''
*Romanian: [[argintiu]] ''m'', [[argintie]] ''f'', [[argintii]] ''m and f plural''
*Russian: [[серебряный]]
*Slovak: [[striebristý]] ''m'', [[striebristá]] ''f'', [[striebristé]] ''n''
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is wrong.

*Slovak: [[strieborný]] ''m'', [[strieborná]] ''f'', [[strieborné]] ''n'' (1)

===Derived terms===
*[[silverfish]]
*[[silver fox]]
*[[silversmith]]
*[[silver surfer]]
*[[silverware]]
*[[silvery]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:English colors]]
[[Category:Chemical elements]]
[[pl:silver]]