==English==

===Noun===

'''snap'''

#To break at once; to break short, as substances that are brittle.
#To strike, to hit, or to shut, with a sharp sound.
#To bite or seize suddenly, especially with the teeth.
#To break upon suddenly with sharp, angry words; to treat snappishly; -- usually with up.
#To crack; to cause to make a sharp, cracking noise; as, to snap a whip.
#To project with a snap.

===Verb===

'''to snap'''

#To break short, or at once; to part asunder suddenly; as, a mast snaps; a needle snaps.
#To give forth, or produce, a sharp, cracking noise; to crack; as, blazing firewood snaps.
#To make an effort to bite; to aim to seize with the teeth; to catch eagerly (at anything); -- often with at; as, a dog snapsat a passenger; a fish snaps at the bait.
#To utter sharp, harsh, angry words; -- often with at; as, to snap at a child.
#To miss fire; as, the gun snapped.
#A sudden breaking or rupture of any substance.
#A sudden, eager bite; a sudden seizing, or effort to seize, as with the teeth.
#A sudden, sharp motion or blow, as with the finger sprung from the thumb, or the thumb from the finger.
#A sharp, abrupt sound, as that made by the crack of a whip; as, the snap of the trigger of a gun.
#A greedy fellow.
#That which is, or may be, snapped up; something bitten off, seized, or obtained by a single quick movement; hence, a bite, morsel, or fragment; a scrap.
#A sudden severe interval or spell; -- applied to the weather; as, a cold snap.
#A small catch or fastening held or closed by means of a spring, or one which closes with a snapping sound, as the catch of a bracelet, necklace, clasp of a book, etc.
#A snap beetle.
#A thin, crisp cake, usually small, and flavored with ginger; -- used chiefly in the plural.
#Briskness; vigor; energy; decision.
#Any circumstance out of which money may be made or an advantage gained.