==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===

From [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] [[s'essorer]] (meaning to soar), [[essorer]] (meaning to [[dry]] (by exposing to the air)), from [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] [[ex]] (meaning [[out]] + [[aura]] (meaning the [[air]], a breeze); akin to [[w:Greek language|Greek]][[Category:Greek derivations]] aura (meaning breath). See [[aura]], also compare [[exhale]].
===Intransitive Verb===
'''to soar''' ('''soared''', '''soaring''')
#To fly [[aloft]], as a [[bird]]; to mount upward on wings, or as on wings. [[Chaucer]]. 
#:''When soars Gaul's vulture with his wings unfurled.'' [[Byron]].
#(Figurative) To rise in thought, spirits, or imagination; to be exalted in mood. 
#:''Where the deep transported mind may soar.'' [[Milton]].
#:''Valor soars above What the world calls misfortune.'' [[Addison.]]
===Noun===
'''soar'''
#The act of soaring; upward flight. 
#:''This apparent soar of the hooded falcon.'' [[Coleridge]].


<!-- from Webster:

Soar (?), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Soared (#); p. pr. & vb. n. Soaring.] [F. s'essorer to soar, essorer to dry (by exposing to the air), fr. L. ex out + aura the air, a breeze; akin to Gr. .] 

1. To fly aloft, as a bird; to mount upward on wings, or as on wings. Chaucer. 

When soars Gaul's vulture with his wings unfurled. Byron.
2. Fig.: To rise in thought, spirits, or imagination; to be exalted in mood. 

Where the deep transported mind may soar. Milton.
Valor soars above What the world calls misfortune. Addison.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Soar (Page: 1364)
Soar, n. The act of soaring; upward flight. 

This apparent soar of the hooded falcon. Coleridge.


-->