==English==
===Noun===
'''spur''' (''plural'' spurs)

# A rigid [[implement]], often roughly y-shaped, that is fixed to one's [[heel]] for purpose of [[prod]]ding a [[horse]].  Often [[worn]] by, and [[emblematic]] of, the [[cowboy]] or the [[knight]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1598''': Lives he, good uncle? [[Thrice]] within this [[hour]] I saw him down; thrice up again, and [[fight]]ing; From [[helmet]] to the [[spur]] all [[blood]] he was. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry V'', Act IV, Scene VI, line 4.
#:*'''1786''': Two sorts of [[spur]]s seem to have been in use about the time of the Conquest, one called a [[pryck]], having only a single [[point]] like the [[gaffle]] of a fighting [[cock]]; the other consisting of a number of points of considerable length, radiating from and revolving on a center, [[thence]] named the [[rouelle]] or [[wheel spur]]. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 22.
#:'''See also'''
#:* [[rowel]]
#:* [[pryck]], [[prick]]
#:'''External links'''
#:*Wikipedia article on [[w:spur|spur]].
# Anything that [[inspire]]s or [[motivate]]s, as a spur does to a horse.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1601''': But, worthy Hector, She is a [[theme]] of [[honour]] and [[renown]], A [[spur]] to [[valiant]] and [[magnanimous]] [[deeds]]... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Troilus and Cressida'', Act II, Scene II, line 198. 
# An [[appendage]] or [[spike]] pointing rearward, near the [[foot]], for instance that of a [[rooster]].
# Any [[protruding]] part connected at one end, for instance a [[highway]] that extends from another highway into a city.
# [[Root]]s. (As in [[genealogical]]?). Spurs are [[symbolic]] of [[knighthood]], so perhaps spurs in this context is an [[allusion]] to the [[hereditary]] aspect of [[knighthood]].  Any insights would be appreciated. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1609''': I do note That [[grief]] and [[patience]], [[root]]ed in them both, [[Mingle]] their [[spurs]] together. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Cymbeline'', Act IV, Scene II, line 57. 

====Translations====
*German: [[Spore]] ''f'' (1), [[Ansporn]] (2)

===Verb===
'''spur''' (spurred)

#To [[prod]] (''esp.'' a [[horse]]) in the side or [[flank]], with the intent to [[urge]] [[motion]] or [[haste]], to [[gig]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1592''':  [[Draw]], [[archer]]s, draw your [[arrow]]s to the head! [[Spur]] your proud horses hard, and ride in blood; Amaze the [[welkin]] with your broken [[stave]]s! &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Richard III'', Act V, Scene III, line 339. 
#To urge or [[encourage]] to action, or to a more [[vigorous]] [[pursuit]] of an [[object]]; to [[incite]]; to [[stimulate]]; to [[instigate]]; to [[impel]]; to [[drive]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1599''': My [[desire]] (More [[sharp]] than filed steel) did [[spur]] me [[forth]]... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Twelfth Night'', Act III, Scene IV, line 4. 
#To put spurs on; as, a spurred boot.

====Translations====
*German: die [[Spore]]n geben (1), [[anspornen]] (2), mit [[Spore]]n versehen (3)

----

==German==
===Noun===
{| align="right" border="1"
! [[Glossar:case|case]]
! [[Glossar:singular|singular]]
! [[Glossar:plural|plural]] 
|-
|'''[[Glossar:nominative|nominative]]'''
| die Spur || die Spuren
|-
|'''[[Glossar:genitive|genitive]]'''
| der Spur || der Spuren
|-
|'''[[Glossar:dative|dative]]'''
| der Spur || den Spuren
|-
|'''[[Glossar:accusative|accusative]]'''
| die Spur || die Spuren
|}
'''Spur''' ''f''

# [[Trace]]

[[et:Spur]]
[[it:spur]]