===Pronunciation===
:(US) SAMPA:/skwE@/

===Noun===
# (''Mathematics'') A 4-sided [[polygon]] with all sides [[equal]] in [[length]].
# An L-shaped [[tool]] used to place objects or draw [[line]]s at [[right angle]]s.
#:Ex. [[carpenters_square]], [[try_square]], [[framing_square]]
# Open [[leisure]] space in a [[town]], often [[arborize]]d (some better definition?)
# (''slang'') A socially [[conventional]] person.
#:Ex. [[Dude]]!  Why do you always wear a tie? Don't be such a '''square'''!
# ''capitalized.'' [[Squaresoft]]
#  (''Mathematics'')The second power of a [[number]].
#: ''64 is the square of 8.''

====Translations====
*Czech: [[čtverec]] ''m'' (1), [[druhá mocnina]] ''f'' (6)
*Dutch: [[vierkant]] ''n'' (1)
*German: [[Quadrat]] ''n'' (1, 6), [[Anschlagwinkel]] ''m'' (2, try square), [[Zeichenschiene]] ''f'' (2, T-square), [[Platz]] ''m'' (3), [[Spießer]] ''m'' (4)
*Interlingua: [[quadrato]] (1); [[esquadra]] (2); [[placia]] (3), [[conventional]] (4), [[conservator]] (4)
*Japanese: [[正方形]] (せいほうけい, seihōkei) (1); [[広場]] (ひろば, hiroba) (3)
*Korean: [[정사각형]] [正四角形] (jeongsagakhyeong)
*Latin: [[quadrum]], [[quadratum]]
*Portuguese: [[quadrado]] ''m'' (1, 4); [[esquadro]] ''m'' (2); [[praça]] ''f'' (3)
*Romanian: [[pătrat]] ''n'' (1), [[echer]] ''n'' (2), piaţă ''f'' (3)
*Slovak: [[štvorec]] ''m'' (1)

===Transitive verb===
# [[Adjust]] so as to be in [[alignment]] (esp. to align [[object]]s to be at [[perfect]] right angles)
# To [[resolve]].
#:Ex. <i>John can <b>square</b> this question up for us.</i>
# To multiply (a number) by itself.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[oplossen]] (2)
*German: [[quadrieren]] (3)
*Interlingua: [[quadrar]] (1); [[resolver]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[alinhar]] (1) (is there a better translation?); [[resolver]] (2)

===Adjective===

# Shaped like a square (1)
# At right angles
# Nutritious (''a square meal'')
# Socially conventional, boring
# (''Of a unit of distance'') Multiplied by itself to give a unit of area. (''square metre'', ''square mile'')

====Translations====

*German: [[quadratisch]] (1), [[rechtwinklig]] (2) [[anständig]] (3), [[spießig]] (4), [[quadrat]]- (5) (used as a prefix to form compound words, e.g. [[Quadratmeter]], square metre)

===See Also===
*[[Line]]
*[[Rectangle]]
*[[Triangle]]
*[[Parallelogram]]