=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'stænd/

== [[verb]] ==

'''to stand''' ([[stood]], stood)

# to be upright, support oneself on the feet in an erect position
# rise ([[stand up]])
# to [[undergo]]

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[staan]], [[opstaan]]
*[[French]]: [[être debout]], [[se lever]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[diri|berdiri]], [[tegak]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[立つ]] ([[たつ]], tatsu)
*[[Spanish]]: [[parar]], [[pararse]]

=== Examples ===
<ul>
	<li>We were standing behind the station (and talking when we noticed her).
	<li>We stood (up) as a sign of courtesy when the speaker walked in.
	<li>Once a week in school, the students stand (up) and say the Pledge of the Allegiance.
	<li>The guests are arriving any time. Don’t just stand there. We still have work to do.
	<li>Stand still! When you hear that, don’t move and stand…still (/motionless).
	<li>He’s the person who’s standing…at the bar (/near the bar).
	<li>He stood breast high amid the wheat.
	<li>He stood in front of the statue (/among the crowd) so I can take a picture of him.
	<li>Stand in front of the statue so I can take a picture of you.
	<li>I’ve sprained my ankle. I can’t stand very long.
	<li>You don’t have to stand (up) by the door. Please come in and sit down.
	<li>Handstand is when someone stands on their hands or heads with their feet up.
	<li>There are no seats available except standing room only.
	<li>She picked up the child, stood him on his feet, and consoled him.
	<li>The mother sent the misbehaved child to stand in the corner (inside the hallway).
</ul>


=== Related terms ===
* Stand back, to be [[behind]], [[Interjection]] 

'''Translations''' 
*[[French]]: [[en arrière]] 
*[[German]]: [[standplatz zurück]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[a retro]] 
*[[Italian]]: [[indietro]] 
*[[Portuguese]]: [[para trás]] 
*[[Spanish]]: [[atrás]]
 
* Stand-by, [[Verb]]

'''Translations]]''' 
*[[French]]: [[tenez-vous prêt]] 
*[[German]]: [[stehen Sie bereit]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[esser presente]], [[tener se preste]], [[in reserva]] 
*[[Italian]]: [[fare una pausa]] 
*[[Spanish]]: [[hacer una pausa]], [[en reserva]] 

* Stand-in, double, [[noun]] 

'''Translations''' 
*[[French]]: [[double]] 
*[[German]]: [[doppeltes]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[duple]] 
*[[Italian]]: [[doppio]] 
*[[Portuguese]]: [[dobro]] 
*[[Spanish]]: [[doble]] 

* Stand-in-for, [[verb]] 

'''Translations ''' 
*[[French]]: [[remplacer]] 
*[[German]]: [[ersetzen sich]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[suppler a un persona]] 
*[[Italian]]: [[sostituire]] 
*[[Spanish]]: [[substituir]]
 
* Stand-out, [[verb]]

'''Translations''' 
*[[French]]: [[dehors]] 
*[[German]]: [[standplatz heraus]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[esser conspicue]], [[saliente]] 

* Standpoint, [[point of view]], [[noun]] 

'''Translations'''
*[[French]]: [[point de vue]] 
*[[German]]: [[standpunkt]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[puncto de vista]] 
*[[Italian]]: [[punto di vista]] 
*[[Portuguese]]: [[ponto de vista]] 
*[[Spanish]]: [[punto de vista]] 

* Standstill, [[noun]]

'''Translations''' 
*[[French]]: [[arrêt]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[immobilisation]], [[paralyse]] 
*[[Italian]]: [[fermata]] 
*[[Portuguese]]: [[paralisação]] 
*[[Spanish]]: [[parada]] 

* Stand up!, [[verb]], command or [[interjection]]

'''Translations'''
*[[French]]: [[levez-vous]] 
*[[German]]: [[stehen Sie oben]] 
*[[Interlingua]]: [[leva te]] 
*[[Italian]]: [[leva in piedi]] 
*[[Portuguese]]: [[esteja acima]] 
*[[Spanish]]: [[levantese]]