==English==
===Noun===
'''station''' ([[stations]])

#A place where a vehicle (especially a train) may stop.
#:''The next station is Esperanza.''
#A place where one stands or stays in order to perform a task.
#:''From my station at the front door, I greeted every visitor.''
#Area of a restaurant allocated to one waiter or waitress.
#A military base.
#:''She had a boyfriend at the station.''
#A place used for [[broadcast]]ing radio or television.
#:''I used to work at a radio station.''
#A broadcasting entity.
#:''I used to listen to that radio station.''
#(''Australia'') A very large [[livestock]] farm
#:''There was movement at the station for the word had got around that the colt from old regret had got away''

====Synonyms====
*(''broadcasting entity''): (''that broadcasts television'') [[channel]]
*(''military base''): [[base]], [[military base]]
*(''large livestock farm''): [[farm]], [[ranch]]

====Translations====

'''place where a vehicle may stop'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[gare]] ''f'', [[station#French|station]] ''f''
*Italian: [[stazione]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Russian: [[станция]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''place where one stands or stays'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''military base'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''place used for broadcasting'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''broadcasting entity'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[chaîne]] ''f''
*Italian: [[canale]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''Australia: very large livestock farm'''
''See [[ranch]]''

===Transitive verb===
# To put in place to perform a task.
#:''The host stationed me at the front door to greet visitors.''
# To put in place to perform military duty.
#:''They stationed me overseas just as fighting broke out.''

===Related terms===
*[[base station]]
*[[battle station]]
*[[bus station]]
*[[cattle station]]
*[[coach station]]
*[[fire station]]
*[[gas station]]
*[[petrol station]]
*[[police station]]
*[[power station]]
*[[radar station]]
*[[radio station]]
*[[railway station]]
*[[service station]]
*[[sheep station]]
*[[space station]]
*[[subway station]]
*[[state]]
*[[stationary]]
*[[station hand]]
*[[station master]]
*[[stations of the cross]]
*[[station wagon]]
*[[substation]]
*[[subway station]]
*[[television station]], [[TV station]]
*[[train station]]
*[[Tube station]]
*[[underground station]]
*[[way station]]
*[[weigh station]]