==English==
===Pronunciation===
\Stir\

===Transitive verb===
'''to stir''' (''stirred'', ''stirring''
[OE. stiren, steren, sturen, AS. styrian;
probably akin to D. storen to disturb, G. st["o]ren, OHG.
st[=o]ren to scatter, destroy. [root]166.]

# To change the place of in any manner; to move.
#:''My foot I had never yet in five days been able to stir.  --Sir W. Temple''
# To disturb the relative position of the particles of, as of a liquid, by passing something through it; to agitate; as, to stir a pudding with a spoon.
#:''My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirred.  --Shak''
# To bring into debate; to agitate; to moot.
#:''Stir not questions of jurisdiction.   --Bacon''
# To incite to action; to arouse; to instigate; to prompt; to excite.
#:''To stir men to devotion. --Chaucer''
#:''An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife. --Shak.''
#:''And for her sake some mutiny will stir. --Dryden.''
#:Note: In all senses except the first, stir is often followed by up with an intensive effect; as, to stir up fire; to stir up sedition.

====Synonyms====
* To move; incite; awaken; rouse; animate; stimulate; excite; provoke.
====Translations====
* {{fr}} : [[agiter]]
*[[German]]: [[bewegen]] (1), [[rühren]] (2), [[hervorrufen]] (3), [[anstacheln]] (4)
* {{io}} : [[agitar]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''to stir'''
# To move; to change one's position.
#:''I had not power to stir or strive, But felt that I was still alive.  --Byron.''
# To be in motion; to be active or bustling; to exert or busy one's self.
#:''All are not fit with them to stir and toil. --Byron.''
#:''The friends of the unfortunate exile, far from resenting his unjust suspicions, were stirring anxiously in his behalf.  --Merivale.''
# To become the object of notice; to be on foot.
#:''They fancy they have a right to talk freely upon everything that stirs or appears.   --I. Watts.''
# To rise, or be up, in the morning. [Colloq.] --Shak.

====Translations====
*[[German]]: (sich) [[bewegen]] (1), (sich) [[regen]] (2), [[auffallen]] (3)

===Noun===
'''stir'''
#The act or result of stirring; agitation; tumult; bustle; noise or various movements.
#:''Why all these words, this clamor, and this stir?    --Denham.''
#:''Consider, after so much stir about genus and species, how few words we have yet settled definitions of.   --Locke.''
# Public disturbance or commotion; tumultuous disorder; seditious uproar.
#:''Being advertised of some stirs raised by his unnatural sons in England.    --Sir J.Davies.''
# Agitation of thoughts; conflicting passions.

====Translations====
*[[German]]: [[Erregung]] (1,3), [[Aufruhr]] (2)

[[fr:stir]]