Let's find a consensus for all the popular meanings of "strafe" in English.

-----

I think it has something to do with shooting a gun.

-----

As a verb, ''strafe'' means, "to attack (ground troops, for example) with a machine gun or cannon from a low-flying aircraft." As a noun, it means, "an attack of machine-gun or cannon fire from a low-flying aircraft."

It originates from the German phrase ''Gott strafe England'' ("God punish England") a common salutation in Germany in 1914 and the following years.

It was used (originally by British soldiers) in various senses suggested by its origin: To punish; to do damage to; to attack fiercely; to heap imprecations on. In later military usage, it came to mean to attack from low-flying aircraft with bombs or machine-gun fire, etc. 

(References: The Oxford English Dictionary, various other garden-variety desktop dictionaries, [http://www.dictionary.com dictionary.com])

Interestingly, the first-person-shooter video game Quake has perpetuated an odd misuse of the word ''strafe''.

''Strafe'' does not mean to step sideways or run sideways; it has no relation to movement, lateral or otherwise. How it came to mean what it does in Quake ''et al'' is a mystery.

--[[User:C3k|C3k]] 13:40, 7 Mar 2004 (UTC)

:If you happen to be shooting with a machine gun or similar while moving sideways as in ''Quake'', ''Doom'' etc. (which is what the game is all about!) then it is very similar to what I would understand by the word, ie: ''shooting continuously from an aircraft at targets on the ground.'' The aircraft is usually moving which is where the movement concept comes from. [[User:Trunkie|trunkie]] 19:32, 7 Mar 2004 (UTC)