==English==
===Transitive verb===
'''to stretch''' (stretching, stretched)

#To lengthen by pulling.
#:''I stretched the rubber band until it almost broke.''
#To pull tight.
#:''First, stretch the skin over the frame of the drum.''
#To get more use than expected from a limited resource.
#:''I managed to stretch my coffee supply a few more days.''
#To try to make too much of.
#:''To say crossing the street was brave is stretching the meaning of "brave" considerably.''

====Translations====

'''lengthen by pulling'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''pull tight'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''get more than expected from a limited resource'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''try to make too much of'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Intranstitive verb===
'''to stretch''' (stretching, stretched)

#To lengthen when pulled.
#:''The rubber band stretched almost to the breaking point.''
#To extend one's limbs or body in order to stretch the muscles.
#:''I woke up, yawned and stretched.''

====Translations====

'''lengthen when pulled'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''extend one's limbs or body in order to stretch the muscles'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
*French: distendre
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Noun===
'''stretch''' (''plural'' '''stretches''')
#An act of stretching. <!-- but not in all senses? -->
#:''I was right in the middle of a stretch when the phone rang.''
#:''To say crossing the street was brave was quite a stretch.''
#The ability to lengthen when pulled.
#:''That rubber band has quite a bit of stretch.''
#A segment of a journey or route.
#:''It was an easy trip except for the last stretch, which took forever.''

====Translations====

'''act of stretching'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''ability to lengthen when pulled'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''segment of a journey or route'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[by a long stretch]]
*[[outstretch]]
*[[overstretch]]
*[[seventh inning stretch]]
*[[stretch limo]]
*[[stretch of the imagination]]
*[[stretch marks]]
*[[stretch out]]
*[[stretch pants]]
*[[stretcher]]
*[[stretchy]]

[[nl:stretch]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]