==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /strIN/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /strɪŋ/

===Noun===
'''string''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''strings''')

#(''[[countable]]'') A long, thin and flexible structure made from [[thread]]s twisted together.
#(''[[uncountable]]'') Such a structure considered as a substance.
#(''[[countable]]'') Any long, thin and flexible object.
#:''a violin string''
#(''[[countable]]'') A cohesive substance taking the form of a string.
#:''The string of spittle dangling from his chin was most unattractive''
#(''[[countable]]'') A series of items or events.
#:''a string of successes''
#(''[[countable]]'') (''computing'') A sequence of [[character]]s stored consecutively in [[memory]] and capable of being processed as a single entity.
#('''strings'''; ''plural'') (''[[music]]'') Collectively, the stringed instruments in an orchestra.
#('''strings'''; ''plural'') Conditions, especially undesirable ones.
#:''It looks like a good offer, but there are strings attached.''

====Synonyms====
*(long, thin structure): [[cord]], [[rope]], [[line]]
*(this structure as a substance): [[cord]], [[rope]], [[twine]]
*(anything long and thin):
*(cohesive substance in the form of a string):
*(series of items or events): [[sequence]], [[series]]
*(sequence of characters in computing):
*(stringed instruments): [[string section]]
*(conditions): [[condition]]s, [[proviso]]s

====Translations====
'''long, thin structure'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[corde]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''this structure as a substance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[corde]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''anything long and thin'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''cohesive substance in the form of a string'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''series of items or events'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[suite]] ''f'', [[série]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[serie]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''sequence of characters in computing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[chaîne de caractères]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[stringa]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''stringed instruments'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''conditions'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Transitive verb===
'''to string''' (stringing, [[strung]], strung)

#To put (items) on a string.
#:''You can string these beads to make a colorful necklace''
#To put strings on (something).
#:''It is difficult to string a tennis racket properly''

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[rijgen]], [[aaneenrijgen]]

===Related terms===
*[[heartstrings]]
*[[string along]]
*[[string band]]
*[[string quartet]]
*[[string up]]
*[[string vest]]