==English==

===Etymology===
{{rfc}} <!-- needs to be NPOV, needs to be less encyclopaedic-->

A term first coined by the popular bonnes vivantes the Brewnettes, it derives from the episode title of a children's television program. The episode was not aired by the Public Broadcasting Service following pressure from the Bush Administration. 

In January 2005 Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings wrote an open letter to PBS, complaining about an upcoming episode of the children's show ''Postcards from Buster.'' The show, which receives money from the Education Department, combines animation with live action, and in each episode the animated bunny Buster and his father visit real families all over the country. Buster has met Mormons in Utah, Hmong in Wisconsin, Pentecostal Christians, Muslims, and Orthodox Jews.

Spellings objected to the episode "Sugartime!", which shows how maple syrup is made. The episode takes places in Vermont and features a little girl whose parents are a lesbian couple. (Civil unions are legal in the state.) Spellings said that the episode violates the Education Department grant that helped fund the program, despite the fact that the grant language states: "Diversity will be incorporated into the fabric of the series to help children understand and respect differences and learn to live in a multicultural society." Under pressure, PBS backed down and decided not to air the episode or distribute it to its 350 stations. However, WGBH, the Boston public TV station, stated that it will air the episode and will make it available to other stations that want to show it; so far, 45 stations plan to air "Sugartime!", including New York, San Francisco, Seattle, St. Paul, and Portland, OR.

===Noun===
'''sugartime'''  (''uncountable'')
# {{slang}}: Sexual relations between women.
#: ''Sarah and Sally went home early to enjoy some '''sugartime'''.''
# {{slang}}: [[cunnilingus|Cunnilingus]].
#: ''Michael rolled over as if to go to sleep, but Jenn said, "Uh, how about a little '''sugartime'''?"''
# Time set aside for any enjoyable activity; (confer [[dinnertime]], [[nap time]].)
#: ''It's '''sugartime'''!''
# The time that is spent collecting sap from trees.
#: ''It's '''sugartime''' in Vermont.''

===Proper noun===
'''sugartime'''
# The name of a [[song]] recorded by the McGuire Sisters in 1958

===External links===
* [http://www.brewnettes.com The Brewnettes website]
* [http://www.fair.org/activism/pbs-buster.html Background and action from FAIR]
* [http://www.tolerance.org/news/article_tol.jsp?id=1156 More information and links from Tolerance.org]
* [http://www.brewnettes.com/sugartime.html "It's Sugartime!" t-shirts]