{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Noun===
'''sum'''

#a [[total]]
#result of [[addition]]
#a [[mathematics]] question posed to a [[student]] (strictly [[addition]], but commonly applied to all)
# An old English measure of corn equal to the [[quarter]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1882''': The sum is also used for the quarter, and the strike for the bushel. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 4, p. 207.

====Translation====
*Dutch: [[som]] ''f'' (1,2), [[rekensom]] ''f'' (3)
*Finnish: [[summa]] (1, 2); [[laskuteht채v채]] (3)
*{{fr}}: [[somme]] ''f''
*{{de}}: [[Summe]] ''f''
*{{sv}}: [[summa]] ''c'' (1,2)

===Verb===
'''to sum'''
#to [[add]] together

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[optellen]], [[bijeentellen]]
*Finnish: [[summata]], [[ynn채t채]] (''old''), [[laskea yhteen]]
*{{sv}}: [[summera]]

====Homophone====
[[some]]

----

=={{la}}==
[[Category:Latin language]]
===Verb===
'''sum''', infinitive '''[[esse]]''', perfect '''[[fui]]''', perfect passive participle '''[[futurus]]'''

First person singular, present indicative active of ''[[esse]]'', '''to be'''.

# I [[am]], I [[exist]]

====Conjugation====
<table border=1>
<tr><th>  <th>Present<br>indicative<th>Future<br>indicative
<th>Imperfect<br>indicative.<th>Perfect<br>indicative<th>Future perfect<br>indicative<th>Pluperfect<br>indicative</tr>
<tr><td>1st p.</td><td>sum</td><td>ero</td><td>eram</td><td>fui</td><td>fuero</td><td>fueram</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.</td><td>es</td><td>eris</td><td>eras</td><td>fuisti</td><td>fueris</td><td>fueras</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.</td><td>est</td><td>erit</td><td>erat</td><td>fuit</td><td>fuerit</td><td>fuerat</td>
<tr><td>1st p.pl.</td><td>sumus</td><td>erimus</td><td>eramus</td><td>fuimus</td><td>fuerimus</td><td>fueramus</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.pl.</td><td>estis</td><td>eritis</td><td>eratis</td><td>fuitis</td><td>fueritis</td><td>fueratis</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.pl</td><td>sunt</td><td>erunt</td><td>erant</td><td>fuerunt</td><td>fuerint</td><td>fuerant</td>
</table>
<table border=1>
<tr><th>  <th>Present<br>subjunctive<th>Imperfect<br>subjunctive<th>Perfect<br>subjunctive<th>Pluperfect<br>subjunctive</tr>
<tr><td>1st p.</td><td>sim</td><td>essem</td><td>fuerim</td><td>fuissem</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.</td><td>sis</td><td>esses</td><td>fueris</td><td>fuisses</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.</td><td>sit</td><td>esset</td><td>fuerit</td><td>fuisset</td>
<tr><td>1st p.pl.</td><td>simus</td><td>essemus</td><td>fuerimus</td><td>fuissemus</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.pl.</td><td>sitis</td><td>essetis</td><td>fueritis</td><td>fuissetis</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.pl.</td><td>sint</td><td>essent</td><td>fuerint</td><td>fuissent</td>
</table>

'''Singular imperative:''' es<br>
'''Plural imperative:''' este<br>
'''Present infinitive:''' esse<br>
'''Future infinitive:''' futurus esse or fore<br>
'''Perfect infinitive:''' fuisse<br>
'''Future participle:''' futurus, -a, -um

====Derived Words====
*[[absum]]
*[[adsum]]
*[[insum]]
*[[intersum]]
*[[praesum]]
*[[subsum]]
*[[supersum]]

====Related Words====
*[[futurus]]
*[[possum]]

[[la:Sum]]
[[nl:sum]]
[[pl:Sum]]
[[sv:sum]]