==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[tacan]]''
=== Pronunciation ===
*/teɪk/, /<tt>teIk</tt>/

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:200 English basic words]]
=== Verb ===
'''take''' ('''[[took]]''', '''[[taken]]''')

# To [[grab]] and move to [[oneself]].
#: ''I'll take that plate off the table.''
# {{military}} To gain a position by force.
#: ''After a bloody battle, they were able to take the city.''
# To have sex with forcefully, possibly without consent.
#: ''He took her.''
# To [[carry]], particularly to a particular destination.
#: ''I'll take the plate with me.''
#: ''I'll take the plate to the sink.''
# To [[choose]].
#: ''I'll take the blue plates.''
# To support or carry without failing or breaking.
#: ''That truck bed will only take two tons.''
# To [[endure]] or cope with.
#: ''I can take the noise, but I can't take the smell.''
# To [[ingest]] [[medicine]], [[drug]]s etc.
#: ''I take aspirin every day to thin my blood.''
# With ''for'', to assume to be.
#:''Do you '''take''' me '''for''' a fool?''
# To [[enroll]] (in a [[class]], or a [[course]] of [[study]])
#: ''I'm taking math, physics, literature and flower arrangment.''
# To participate in, undergo (a [[test]] or [[exam]])
#: ''I'm taking my math final today.''
# {{climbing}} To tighten (take up) a belaying rope.  Often used imperatively.
#: '''''Take!'''''
# To [[fight]] or attempt to fight somebody (see also [[take on]]).
#:''Don't try to '''take''' that guy.  He's bigger than you.'''

===Noun===
'''take'''

# An interpretation or view.
#:''What's your '''take''' on this issue, Fred?''
# {{film}} An attempt to record a scene
#:''It's a '''take'''.''
#:''Act seven, scene three, '''take''' two.''
# {{rugby}} A [[catch]]
# {{acting}} A facial gesture in response to an event.
#: ''I did a take when I saw the new car in the driveway.''


====Synonyms==== <!-- Senses need to be re-attached -->
*[[get]]
*[[ingest]]
*[[receive]]
*[[swallow]]

====Antonyms==== <!-- Senses need to be re-attached -->
*[[bring]]
*[[drop]]
*[[give]]

====Related words====
*[[bytake]]
*[[double take]]
*[[for the taking]]
*[[intake]]
*[[mistake]]
*[[outtake]]
*[[overtake]]
*[[spit take]]
*[[take a breather]]
*[[take a bite]]
*[[take a chill pill]]
*[[take a dump]]
*[[take a picture]]
*[[take a spill]]
*[[take a spin]]
*[[take aback]]
*[[take action]]
*[[take amiss]]
*[[take away]]
*[[take back]]
*[[take charge]]
*[[take comfort in]]
*[[take cover]]
*[[take down]]
*[[take exception to]]
*[[take five]]
*[[take guard]]
*[[take hold]]
*[[take in]]
*[[take it as it comes]]
*[[take it easy]]
*[[take it out on]]
*[[take off]]
*[[take off the table]]
*[[take one's rest]]
*[[take one's time]]
*[[take out]]
*[[take part]]
*[[take place]]
*[[take pleasure]]
*[[take pride]]
*[[take prisoner]], [[take no prisoners]]
*[[take silk]]
*[[take the mickey]]
*[[take the piss]]
*[[take time]]
*[[take to]]
*[[take to heart]]
*[[take to one's heels]]
*[[take turns]]
*[[take up]]
*[[take up for]]
*[[take up with]]
*[[takeaway]]
*[[takedown]]
*[[takeout]]
*[[takeout double]]
*[[takeover]]
*[[takings]], [[taking]]
*[[uptake]]

==== Translations ====
{{checktrans}}
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Chinese: [[拿]], [[取]], [[握]], [[接受]], [[应付]]
*Czech: [[brát]]
*Dutch: [[nemen]]
*Filipino: [[kunin]]
*Finnish: [[ottaa]]
*French: [[prendre]], [[amener]] (2)
*German: [[nehmen]]
*[[Ido]]: [[prenar]]
*Indonesian: [[ambil|mengambil]], [[pungut|memungut]]
*Italian: [[prendere]], [[portare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[取る]], (''photograph'') [[撮る]] ([[とる]], toru); [[つかむ]]
*Macedonian: [[зема]]
*{{ru}}: [[взять]], [[брать]]
*Serbian: [[uzeti]]
*Slovak: [[vziať]], [[zobrať]]
*Spanish: [[tomar]]
*Swedish: [[ta]] (1-4)
*Turkish: [[almak]](1,2,7), [[yakalamak]](4), [[anlamak]](5)
|}
|}

[[es:take]]
[[fr:take]]
[[hu:Take]]