===Article===
'''the''' 

# Definite [[w:grammatical article|grammatical article]] in [[w:English language|English]].  Unlike many languages, English does not inflect its articles for gender, case or number.
#: ''The word ''the'' is the most common word in the English Language.''
#: ''The men, the women, the boy and the girl watched the birds eat the birdseed.''
# When stressed, indicates that the object in question is the best or the only one worthy of attention.
#: ''That is ''the'' hospital to go to for heart surgery.''
# With an adjective, indicates all persons to whom the adjective applies.
#: ''Feed the hungry, clothe the naked, comfort the afflicted, and afflict the comfortable.''
# With a [[comparative]] or ''[[more]]'' and a verb phrase, establishes a parallel with another comparison (often but not always a similar construction with ''the'').
#: ''The more I think about it, the weaker it looks.''
#: ''The hotter the better.''
#: ''It looks weaker and weaker, the more I think about it.''
# With a [[superlative]], indicates the person or thing to which the superlative applies.
#: ''That apple pie was the best.''

<!--''The''  can also mean "sufficient", as in "lacked the gumption to make his move".-->
<!-- No, this is OK without ''the'', though this usage is less common -->
<!-- It can also be used as a [[w:possessive pronoun|possessive pronoun]], as in "can't walk right since the ankle went";-->
<!-- I doubt this is quite what's going on: "So, you can't walk right since the ankle went?"  This usage is very close to ''that''-->
<!-- as an expression of a [[w:ratio|ratio]], as in "five apples the dollar"; -->
<!-- First, this sounds odd to me, or at least dated.  Second, ''a/and'' serves in similar situations, notably ''five miles an hour''.  I would say that ''the dollar'' here is idiomatic, not rule-based, but I could be wrong. -->

===See Also===
*[[a]]/[[an]]
*[[that]]
*[[this]]

*[[w:gramatical article|Wikipedia article on grammatical articles]]

===Pronunciation===
*(''unstressed''): <i>th</i>ə, /ðə/, /D@/
*(''stressed''): <i>th</i>ē, /ðiː/, /Di:/

''The'' is generally unstressed, except as noted above or in reference.  E.g., in "The word ''the''", the second instance is stressed.

<!-- The exact handling of ''the'' before vowels has to do with the phonology of the dialect in question.  The rule originally given (long e before vowels) is by no means universal -->

===Etymology===

Old English ''&thorn;&aelig;t'', neuter article; Middle English ''&thorn;&aelig;t'', definite article.

====Translations====
*[[Afrikaans]]: [[die]]
*Arabic: [[-ال]] (al-)
*[[Aragonese]]: [[o]] ''m'', [[a]] ''f'', [[os]] ''m, pl'', [[as]] ''f, pl''
*[[Basque]]: [[-a]]
*[[Catalan]]:
**[[el]] ''m'' ''s'', [[lo]] ''m'' ''s'', [[es]] ''m'' ''s'', [[so]] ''m'' ''s'' (after [[amb]]: with)
**[[la]] ''f'' ''s'', [[sa]] ''f'', ''s''
**[[els]] ''m'' ''pl'', [[es]] ''m'' ''pl'', [[sos]] ''m'' ''pl'' (after [[amb]]:with), [[ets]] ''m'' ''pl'' (before vowel)
**[[les]] ''f'' ''pl'', [[ses]] ''f'' ''pl''
**Before vowel: [[l']] ''m'' & ''f'' ''s'' [[s']] ''m'' & ''f'' ''s''
*Chinese: not used.
*Danish: [[en]] ''c'', [[et]] ''n'', [[de]] ''pl''
*Dutch: [[de]] ''m, f, pl'', [[het]] ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[la]]
*Finnish: ''Not used. A demonstrative pronoun may be used for emphasis, but generally nothing needed.''
*French: [[le]] ''m'', [[la]] ''f'', [[les]] ''pl''
*[[Frisian]]: [[de]], [[it]]
*Georgian: not used.
*German: 
**[[der]] ''m, nominative'', [[die]] ''f, nominative'', [[das]] ''n, nominative''
**[[des]] -es ''m, genitive'', [[der]] ''f, genitive'', [[des]] -es ''n, genitive''
**[[dem]] -(e) ''m, dative'', [[der]]  ''f, dative'', [[dem]] -(e) ''n, dative''
**[[den]] ''m, accusative'', [[die]] ''f, accusative'', [[das]] ''n, accusative''
**[[die]] ''m, pl, nominative'', [[die]] ''f, pl, nominative'', [[die]] ''n, pl, nominative''
**[[der]] ''m, pl, genitive'', [[der]] ''f, pl, genitive'', [[der]] ''n, pl, genitive''
**[[den]] -n ''m, pl, dative'', [[den]]  ''f, pl, dative'', [[den]] -n ''n, pl, dative''
**[[die]] ''m, pl, accusative'', [[die]] ''f, pl, accusative'', [[die]] ''n, pl, accusative''
*Greek (Modern): [[ο]] ''m'' (o), [[η]] ''f'' (ē), [[το]] ''n'' (to); [[οι]] ''m/f pl'' (oi), [[τα]] ''n pl'' (ta)
*Greek (Ancient):
**[[ὁ]] ''m nom.'', [[τὸν]] ''m acc.'', [[τοῦ]] ''m gen.'', [[τῷ]] ''m dat.''
**[[οἱ]] ''m nom. pl'', [[τοὺς]] ''m acc. pl'', [[τῶν]] ''m gen. pl'', [[τοῖς]] ''m dat. pl''
**[[ἡ]] ''f nom.'', [[τήν]] ''f acc.'', [[τῆς]] ''f gen.'', [[τῇ]] ''f dat.''
**[[αἱ]] ''f nom. pl'', [[τάς]] ''f acc. pl'', [[τῶν]] ''f gen. pl'', [[ταῖς]] ''f dat. pl''
**[[τὸ]] ''n nom.'', [[τὸ]] ''n acc.'', [[τοῦ]] ''n gen.'', [[τῷ]] ''n dat.''
**[[τὰ]] ''n nom. pl'', [[τὰ]] ''n acc. pl'', [[τῶν]] ''n gen. pl'', [[τοῖς]] ''n dat. pl''
*[[Hawaiian]]: [[ka]], [[ke]] ''s''; [[na]] ''pl''
*Hebrew: [[-ה]] (h-)
*Indonesian: [[si]], [[sang]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[le]]
*Irish: [[an]] ''s'', [[na]] ''pl''
*Italian: [[il]], [[lo]] ''m'', [[la]] ''f''; [[i#Italian|i]], [[gli]] ''m pl'' , [[le#Italian|le]] ''f pl''
*Japanese: not used.
*Latin: not used.
*[[Maori]]: [[te]] ''s'', [[nga]] ''pl''
*[[Lingua Franca Nova]]: [[la]]
*Norwegian: [[-en]] ''c/m'', [[-et]] ''n''; [[en]] ''c/m'', [[ei]] ''f'', [[et]] ''n''
*Polish: not used.
*Portuguese: [[o]] ''m'', [[a]] ''f'', [[os]] ''m,pl'', [[as]] ''f,pl''
*Romanian: ''in form of suffixes added at the end of the word:'' [[-ul]] ''m, sg'', [[-a]] ''f, sg'', [[-i]] ''m, pl'' , [[-le]] ''f, pl''; ''Neuter gender words use the masculine form on singular and the feminine form on plural.''
*Russian: not used.
*[[Samoan]]: [[le]] ''s'', [[e]] ''pl''
*Spanish: [[el]] ''m'', [[la]] ''f'', [[los]] ''m,pl'', [[las]] ''f,pl''. [[lo]] ''n''
*Swedish: ''uses articles and/or suffixes at the same time. Suffixes always, articles only needed before an adjective''
**''articles:'' [[den]] (''c,f,m''), [[det]] (''n'') ''sg''; [[de]] ''pl''
**''suffixes:'' [[-n]], [[-en]], [[-t]], [[-et]] ''sg''; [[-en]], [[-na]] ''pl''
*[[Tongan]]: [[te]]
*Turkish: not used. A word '''not''' preceded by [[bir]] is implicitely definite.
*Welsh: [['r]], [[yr]], [[y]]
*[[Yiddish]]: [[דער]] ''m'' (der), [[די]] ''f'' (di), [[דאָס]] ''n'' (das)

[[Category:English articles]]
[[Category:English determiners]]