===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: <i>th</i>âr
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ðeə(r)/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /De@(r)/

====Homophones====
*[[their]]
*[[they're]]
[[Category:English homophones]]

===Etymology===
Middle English '''[[ther]]''' < Old English '''[[þær]]''' < Proto-Germanic '''[[*þær]]''' < Proto-Indo-European '''[[*tar-]]''' ("there") < PIE demonstrative pronomial base '''[[*to-]]''' ("the", "that") + adverbial suffix '''-r'''.
*Akin to Dutch [[daar]], German [[da]], Old High German [[dār]], Swedish and Danish [[der]], Icelandic and Gothic [[þar]], Sanskrit [[tarhi]] (then), and English [[that]]. See '''[[that]]''' (pronoun).

===Adverb===
'''there'''

#In or at that place. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*[They] '''there''' left me and my man, both bound together. — Shakespeare, ''Comedy of Errors, V-i''
#:*The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and '''there''' he put the man whom he had formed. — ''Genesis 2:8''
#:'''Note:''' In distinction from [[here]], '''there''' usually signifies a place farther off. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Darkness '''there''' might well seem twilight '''here'''. — [[Milton]]
#In that matter, relation, etc.; at that point, stage, etc., regarded as a distinct place; as, he did not stop '''there''', but continued his speech.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend / And turns it to exile; '''there''' art thou happy. — Shakespeare, ''Romeo and Juliet, III-iii''
#To or into that place; [[thither]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The rarest that e'er came '''there'''. — Shakespeare, ''Tempest, II-i''
#:'''Note''': '''There''' is sometimes used by way of exclamation, calling attention to something, especially to something distant; as, '''There, there'''! See '''there'''! Look '''there'''! '''There''' is often used as an expletive, and in this use, when it introduces a sentence or clause, the verb precedes its subject.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A knight '''there''' was, and that a worthy man. — [[Chaucer]]
#:*'''There''' is a path which no fowl knoweth. — ''Job 28:7''
#:*Wherever '''there''' is a sense or perception, '''there''' some idea is actually produced. — [[Locke]]
#:*'''There''' have been that have delivered themselves from their ills by their good fortune or virtue. — [[Suckling]]
#:'''Note:''' '''There''' is much used in composition, and often has the sense of a pronoun. See [[Thereabout]], [[Thereafter]], [[Therefrom]], etc.
#:'''Note:''' '''There''' was formerly used in the sense of [[where]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Spend their good '''there''' it is reasonable. — [[Chaucer]]

====Synonyms====
*[[thither]]

====Derived expressions====
*'''Here and there''', in one place and another.

==== Translations ====

'''In or at that place'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Afrikaans: [[daar]]
*Arabic: ‎[[هناك|هُنَاكَ]] (hunáːka), ‎[[هنالك|هُنَالِكَ]] (hunáːlika)
*Bulgarian: [[там]] (tam)
*[[Catalan]]: [[allà]], [[allí]]
*Chinese: [[那裡]] (nàli)
*Croatian: [[ondje]], [[tamo]]
*Czech: [[tam]]
*Danish: [[der]]
*Dutch: [[daar]], [[ginder]], [[ginds]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[tie]]
*Finnish: [[siellä]]
*French: [[là]], [[là-bas]]
*German: [[dort]], [[da]]
*Greek: [[εκεί]] (ekí)
*[[Guaraní]]: [[upépe]]
*Hebrew: [[‎שם]]‎ (sham)
*Hungarian: [[ott]]
*Icelandic: [[þarna]], [[þar]]
*[[Ido]]: [[ibe]]
*Indonesian: [[situ]] ''(less distant)'', [[sana]] ''(more distant)''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Irish: [[ansin]]
*Italian: [[là]]
*Japanese: [[そこ]] (sokó), [[あそこ]] (asokó)
*Korean: [[거기에]] (geogi-e)
*[[Lakota]]: [[heci]]
*Latin: [[ibi]], [[illic]], [[istic]]
*[[Luxembourgish]]: [[do#Luxembourgish|do]]
*{{nv}}: [[aadi]]
*Norwegian: [[der#Norwegian|der]]
*Polish: [[tam]]
*Portuguese: [[aí]], [[ali]], [[lá]]
*[[Quechua]]: [[jaqaypi]] ''(-pi = [[locative case]])''
*Romanian: [[acolo]], [[colo]]
*Russian: [[там]] (tam)
*Serbian: [[тамо]] (tamo)
*Slovak: [[tam]]
*Spanish: [[allí]], [[ahí]], [[allá]]
*Swedish: [[där]]
*Turkish: [[şurada]] ''(less distant)'', [[ora]], [[orada]] ''(more distant)''
*Ukrainian: [[там]] (tam)
*Vietnamese: [[đằng kia]]
|}
|}

'''In that matter, relation, etc.; at that point, stage, etc.'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Bulgarian: [[тук]] (tuk)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Latin: [[ibi]], [[illic]]
|}
|}

'''To or into that place; [[thither]]'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Arabic: ‎[[الى هناك|إلَى هُنَاكَ]] (íla hunáːka)
*Bulgarian: [[натам]] (natam), [[нататък]] (natatäk)
*Croatian: [[tamo]]
*Danish: [[did#Danish|did]], [[derhen]]
*Dutch: [[daarheen]], [[aldaar]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[tien]]
*Finnish: [[sinne]]
*German: [[dorthin]], [[dahin]]
*Greek: [[προς τα εκεί]] (pros ta ekí)
*Hebrew: [[‎לשם]]‎ (leshám)
*Hungarian: [[oda]]
*Icelandic: [[þangað]]
*Indonesian: [[ke situ]] ''(less distant)'', [[ke sana]] ''(more distant)''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Irish: [[ansin]]
*Japanese: [[そこへ]] (sokó e), [[あそこへ]] (asokó e)
*Latin: [[eo]], [[illuc]], [[istuc]]
*[[Quechua]]: [[jaqayman]] ''(-man = [[illative case]])''
*Russian: [[туда]] (tudá)
*Serbian: [[тамо]] (tamo)
*Spanish: [[por allí]], [[hacia allá]]
*Swedish: [[dit]]
*Turkish: [[şuraya]] ''(less distant)'', [[oraya]] ''(more distant)''
*Ukrainian: [[туди]] (tudi)
*Vietnamese: [[đằng kia]]
|}
|}

[[Category:English adverbs]]

[[pl:There]]
[[pt:There]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]