This is G o o g l e's cache of http://www.taftan.com/thermodynamics/RADIAT.HTM as retrieved on 11 Mar 2005 07:53:42 GMT.
G o o g l e's cache is the snapshot that we took of the page as we crawled the web.
The page may have changed since that time. Click here for the current page without highlighting.
This cached page may reference images which are no longer available. Click here for the cached text only.
To link to or bookmark this page, use the following url: http://www.google.com/search?q=cache:LRZSTLp7vpcJ:www.taftan.com/thermodynamics/RADIAT.HTM+thermal+radiation&hl=en

Google is not affiliated with the authors of this page nor responsible for its content.
These search terms have been highlighted: 	thermal 	radiation 
Thermal Radiation
Thermal radiation is the energy radiated from hot surfaces as electromagnetic waves. It does not require medium for its propagation. Heat transfer by radiation occur between solid surfaces, although radiation from gases is also possible. Solids radiate over a wide range of wavelengths, while some gases emit and absorb radiation on certain wavelengths only.

When thermal radiation strikes a body, it can be absorbed by the body, reflected from the body, or transmitted through the body. The fraction of the incident radiation which is absorbed by the body is called absorptivity (symbol ). Other fractions of incident radiation which are reflected and transmitted are called reflectivity (symbol ) and transmissivity (symbol ), respectively. The sum of these fractions should be unity i.e.

Related topics:

    * Stefan-Boltzmann Law
    * Intensity of Radiation
    * Lambert's Cosine Law 

Copyright © 1998 Taftan Data. All Rights Reserved
joem [[agentmatt2001@yahoo.com]][[Link title]]