==English==
===Etymology===
French ''[[étincelle]]'' a spark, Old French ''[[estincelle]]'', Latin ''[[scintilla]]''. Compare [[scintillate]], [[stencil]]
===Noun===
'''tinsel''' (''[[uncountable]]'')
#A shining material used for ornamental purposes; especially, a very thin, gauzelike cloth with much gold or silver woven into it; also, very thin metal overlaid with a thin coating of gold or silver, brass foil, or the like.
#:Who can discern the tinsel from the gold? - [[John Dryden]]
#Very thin strips of a [[glitter]]ing, [[mettalic]] material used as a [[decoration]]; traditionally, at [[Christmas]] time it is [[drape]]d over [[streamer]]s, [[paper chain]]s and the branches of [[Christmas tree]]s.
#Something shining and [[gaudy]]; something superficially shining and showy, or having a false luster, and more gay than valuable.
#:O happy peasant! O unhappy bard! His the mere tinsel, hers the rich reward. - [[William Cowper]]
===Adjective===
#Showy to excess; gaudy; specious; superficial. 
#:Tinsel trappings. - [[John Milton]]
===Transitive verb===
'''tinsel'''<br>
Imperfect and past participle: Tinseled ''or'' Tinselled <br>
Present participle: Tinseling ''or'' Tinselling
#To adorn with tinsel; to deck out with cheap but showy ornaments; to make gaudy.
#:She, tinseled o'er in robes of varying hues. - [[Alexander Pope]]
#(''metaphorical'') To give something a false [[sparkle]].
===Derived terms===
*[[Tinseltown]]
===See also===
*[[trimmings]]
*[[trim up]]

===Reference===
Webster 1913