==English==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[trans]]'' across + ''[[itus]]'', from ''[[eo]]'', to go
Duncan

===Adjective===
'''transitive''' (''no comparative or superlative'')

#Making a [[transit]] or passage.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*For all symbols are fluxional; all language is vehicular and ''transitive'', and is good, as ferries and horses are, for conveyance, not as farms and houses are, for homestead. - [[Ralph Waldo Emerson]], ''The Poet''
#Affected by transference of signification.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*By far the greater part of the ''transitive'' or derivative applications of words depend on casual and unaccountable caprices of the feelings or the fancy. - [[Stewart]] 
#(''grammar'') Of a verb, that takes an object or objects.
#:''In "I read the book", "read" is a transitive verb.''
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Men have tried to turn "revolutionise" from a transitive to an intransitive verb. - [[G. K. Chesterton]], ''Orthodoxy''
#(''mathematics'') Of a [[relation]] ''R'' on a [[set]] ''S'', such that if ''xRy'' and ''yRz'', then ''xRz'' for all [[member]]s ''x'', ''y'' and ''z'' of ''S'' (that is, if the relation applies from one element to a second, and from the second to a third, then it also applies from the first element to the third).
#:''"Is an ancestor of" is a '''symmetric''' relation.''

====Antonyms====
*(''making a transit or passage''):
*(''affected by transference of signification''):
*(''grammar''): [[intransitive]]
*(''mathematics''): [[intransitive]], [[non-transitive]]<!--meanings might well be slightly different-->

====Translations====

'''making a transit or passage'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''affected by transference of signification'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''grammar: of a verb, that takes an object or objects'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[transitif]] ''m'', transitive ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''mathematics: of a relation'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[transitif]] ''m'', transitive ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Dutch: [[transitief]] (4) [[overdrachtelijk]] (2, 3)
*Finnish: [[transitiivinen]] (3)
*French: [[transitif]] (3, 4)
*German: [[transitiv]] (3,4)

====Derived terms====
*[[ditransitive]]
*[[transitively]]
*[[transitiveness]]
*[[transitive verb]]

===See also===
*[[reflexive]]<!--mathematics sense-->
*[[symmetric]]<!--mathematics sense-->

[[Category:English parts of speech]]

[[pl:Transitive]]