==English==


===Etymology===
From the Latin [[triumphare]]

===Noun===
# The attitude or belief that a particular [[doctrine]], [[culture]], or social system--particularly a religious or political one--is superior and that it will or should [[triumph]] over all others.
# Excessive expression or demonstration of glee at the defeat or failure of a [[rival]]; [[brazen]] gloating.

===Quotations===

'''2001'''  A better understanding of science should lead not to '''triumphalism''' but to the kind of humility recently expressed by Nobel Prize-winning geneticist Francois Jacob in ''Of Flies, Mice and Men'': "Science cannot answer all questions. . . . It can, however, give some indications, exclude certain hypotheses. Engaging in the pursuit of science may help us make fewer mistakes.” <br>Jon Beckwith, in ''American Scientist Online''

'''2001''' "One reason why '''triumphalism''' about the fall of the Taliban should be eschewed is because the US and its allies have shown insufficient regret and sadness at the deaths of Afghan villagers. This has allowed the propagandists of Islamic nihilism to claim that the US cares about the deaths of civilians in New York but not in Afghanistan."<br>
''The Independent'', online news, UK

'''2004''' Yet in addition to being self-defeating, sectarian '''triumphalism''' undermines core Jewish values of common peoplehood and mutual bonds between Jews worldwide.<br>
Steven Bayme, in ''The Jewish Week''

'''2004''' The abasement rituals at Abu Ghraib were most generally conditioned by the climate of impunity created by '''triumphalist''' strategy, ideology and rhetoric, which led, at least, to dismissive negligence and then cover-ups by authorities.<br>
Dr. Michael A. Weinstein, in <i>The Power and Interest News Report</i>