==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /vəˈnɪlə/

===Noun===
'''vanilla''' (''[[uncountable]] and [[countable]]'')

#(''[[countable]]'') Any tropical, climbing [[orchid]] of the genus '''''Vanilla''''' (especially '''''[[w:Vanilla planifolia|V. planifolia]]'''''), bearing podlike fruit yielding an extract used in flavoring food or in perfumes.
#('''Vanilla''') (''[[uncountable]]'') The genus of this plant.
#(''[[countable]]'') The [[fruit]] or [[bean]] of this orchid.
#(''[[uncountable]]'') The [[extract]] of this fruit.
#(''[[uncountable]]'') The [[distinctive]] [[fragrant]] [[flavour]]/[[flavor]] characteristic of vanilla extract.
#:''You can tell that the secret [[ingredient]] missing from New Coke<sup><small>TM</small></sup> was vanilla, because certain South American economies collapsed when it was introduced, and miraculously revived when the old [[formula]] was used again.''
#(''[[uncountable]]'') Any artificially produced homologue of vanilla extract, generally that produced from coal tar.

====Synonyms====
*(bean): [[vanilla bean]]
*(extract): [[vanilla extract]]
*(artificial extract): [[imitation vanilla]]

====Translations====

'''orchid'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFBFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFBFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''genus'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#BFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#BFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''fruit'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#BFBFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#BFBFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''natural extract'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#BFFFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#BFFFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''flavour/flavor'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFBFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[vanille]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFBFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[vaniglia]]
|}
|}

'''artificial extract'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Adjective===
'''vanilla''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]] forms'')

#Of or relating to vanilla.
#:''vanilla bean''
#Flavoured/flavored with vanilla or vanilla extract (whether natural or artificial).
#:''vanilla ice cream'''
#(''colloquial'') By association with vanilla as the "plain" flavour of ice cream: the standard, plain, default, unmodified.
#:''vanilla sex''.

'''of vanilla'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFBFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: de vanille
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFBFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: di vaniglia
|}
|}

'''flavoured/flavored with vanilla'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#BFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: à la vanille
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#BFFFBF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: alla vaniglia
|}
|}

'''standard'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#BFBFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#BFBFFF" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[vanillin]]