==English [[Leet]]==

===Alternate spellings===
*w007
*woot
*w00+

===Pronunciation===
wo͞ot, /wuːt/, /wu:t/ 

===Interjection===
'''w00t'''!
# (''slang'') Used to express [[joy]], [[success]].

====Usage note====
The term '''w00t''' is used to express happiness or excitement, usually over the Internet. The expression is most popular on [[USENET]] posts, multiplayer computer games (especially [[first person shooter]]s), [[Internet relay chat|IRC]] chats, and [[instant messages]], though use on the [[World Wide Web]] is by no means uncommon.

====Etymology====
The definite origin of the term ''w00t'' is unknown.  One theory claims that usage of this term dates back to the mid-[[w:1990|1990's]], when it was probably derived from the alternative spellings of ''whoomp'' and ''whoot''. These spellings are variously used in the phrases, "Whoomp, there it is," or "Whoot, there it is" from two songs in [[w:1993|1993]] from rap groups [[w:Tag Team]] and [[w:95 South|95 South]], respectively. Another possibility is that it came from the vocalization made by the character in games of the [[w:Quake computer game|Quake]] series when a jump is performed; however, as Quake was only first released in [[w:1996|1996]], this etymology probably only furthered the popularity of the existing term. Others have theorized the term is an [[acronym]] for "'''W'''e [[pwn|'''O'''wned]] the '''O'''ther '''T'''eam", or that "w00t" finds its origin in the sounds of a jubilant [[w:Daffy Duck|Daffy Duck]]. It has also been alleged that "w00t" is a contraction of the phrase "wonderous loot" used in Ultima Online and Everquest whenever a player found large quantities of treasure although it is uncertain if this is really the case.  W00t is also somewhat like the [[w:Scots language|Scots]] word "hoots", which is used in a similar manner—an exclamation signifying surprise, disbelief, or kindred reaction. Another supposed origin is as an expression used by a cracker (see [[w:security cracking|security cracking]]) who has just broken into a computer system, obtaining "root" access: "woot, I have root!" 

A September 06, 2004 [http://www.adage.com/news.cms?newsId=41424 article] (free registration required) on AdAge.com indicated that the term comes "from gaming slang—the original use meant 'Wow! Loot' in Dungeons and Dragons play—and is now a common exclamation of excitement in Net culture."
    
''w00t'' itself was first seen in [[w:1994|1994]]. The expression rose in popularity in the late 1990s and early [[2000s]].  It has not reached general usage or understanding.

====Synonyms====
*[[hurray]]
*[[huzzah]]
*[[whoohoo]]
*[[yay]]
*[[yippee]]

====Derivatives====
*[[w00tness]], [[w00tn3ss]]

====See also====
*[[w:w00t|Wikipedia article on w00t]]
[[category:Leet]]