==English==
===Pronunciation===
*wôk, /wɔːk/, /<tt>wO:k/

===Intransitive verb===
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|walk||}}

#To [[move]] on the [[feet]] by [[alternately]] [[setting]] each [[foot]] (or pairs of feet, in the case of [[quadruped]]s) [[forward]], with at least one foot on the [[ground]] at all times.  Compare '''[[run]]'''.
#(''law; colloquial'') To go [[free]], particularly when [[actually]] [[guilty]].
#:''If you can't present a better case, that robber is going to walk.''
#(''colloquial'') Of an object, to be [[stolen]].
#:''If you leave your wallet lying around, it's going to walk.''
#{{cricket}} (''of a batsman'') To walk off the field, as if [[given]] [[out]], after the [[fielding]] [[side]] [[appeal]]s and before the [[umpire]] has [[ruled]]; done as a matter of [[sportsmanship]] when the batsman knows he is out.

====Synonyms====

*(''move upon two feet''): [[ambulate]] (''technical'')
*(''colloquial: go free''): be [[acquit]]ted, [[get off]], [[go free]]
*(''be stolen''): be/get [[steal|stolen]], be/get [[nick]]ed (''British''), be/get [[pinch]]ed (''British'')

====Translations====

'''move upon two feet'''
{{top}}
*French: [[marcher#French|marcher]]
*German: [[laufen]], [[gehen]]
*Irish: [[siúil]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[camminare]]
*Spanish: [[caminar]], [[andar]]
{{bottom}}

'''law: colloquial: to go free'''
<!--Note: put COLLOQUIAL or SLANG translations in this table, where these exist-->
{{top}}
*German: [[freilassen|freigelassen]] [[werden]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: be stolen'''
<!--Note: put COLLOQUIAL or SLANG translations in this table, where these exist-->
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in cricket'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Danish: [[gå]] (1); [[slippe fri]] (3)
*Dutch: [[lopen]] (1), [[wandelen]] (1), [[verplaatsen]] (2)
*Finnish: [[kävellä]] (1), [[liikuttaa]] (2)
*[[Ga]]: [[nyiemo]]
*German: [[laufen]], [[gehen]], [[wandern]], [[spazieren gehen]]
*Hebrew: [[הלך|הָלַךְ]], (lalechet)
*Indonesian: [[jalan|berjalan]]
*Japanese: [[歩く]] (aruku) (1)
*Korean: [[걷다]] (geod-da) (1), [[가다]] (ga-da) (1), [[움직이다]] (um-jig-i-da) (2)
*[[Kyerepon]]: [[nna]]
*Latin: [[ambulo]] (1)
*Portuguese: [[caminhar]] (1)
*Spanish: [[caminar]] (1)
*[[Twi]]: [[nantew]]
*Vietnamese: [[Đi bộ|đi bộ]] (1), [[mang#Vietnamese|mang]] (2), [[dẫn|dẫn ''direct object'' đi]] (2, ''when the direct object is a person or an animal''), [[bỏ|bỏ đi]] (3)

=== Transitive verb ===
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|walk||}}

#To travel (a distance) by walking.
#:''I walk two miles to school every day.''
#:''The museum's not far from here - you can walk it.''
#To take for a walk.
#:''I walk the dog every morning''
#(''[[baseball]]'') To allow a batter to reach base by pitching four balls.
#To move something by [[shifting]] between two positions, as if it were walking.
#:''I carefully walked the ladder along the wall.''

====Translations====

'''travel (a distance) by walking'''
{{top}}
*French: [[marcher#French|marcher]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[camminare]]
{{bottom}}

'''take for a walk'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''baseball: allow a batter to reach base by pitching four balls'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''move something by shifting between two positions'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Danish: [[gå tur med]] (2)
*Dutch: [[uitlaten]] (2)
*Finnish: [[kävelyttää]] (2)
*Spanish: [[pasear]] (2)
*Vietnamese: [[dẫn]] + ''direct object'' + [[Đi|đi]] [[từng]] [[bước]] [[một]] (2; <!--this belongs on the corresponding Vietnamese page literally "to lead ... every one step"-->)

=== Noun ===
'''walk''' (''plural'' '''walks''')

#A trip made by walking.
#:''I take a walk every morning''
#A distance walked.
#:''It's a long walk from my house to the library''
#A manner of walking.
#:''The Ministry of Silly Walks is underfunded this year''
#A path, [[sidewalk]]/[[pavement]] or other maintained place on which to walk.  Compare '''[[trail]]'''.
#(''[[baseball]]'') An instance of walking a batter.
#:''The pitcher now has two walks in this inning alone''

====Synonyms====

*(''trip made by walking''): [[stroll]] (''slow walk''), [[hike]] (''long walk''), [[trek]] (''long walk'')
*(''distance walked''): [[hike]] (''if long''), [[trek]] (''if long'')
*(''manner of walking''): [[gait]]
*(''path''): [[footpath]], [[path]], [[pavement]] (''British''), [[sidewalk]] (''US'')

====Translations====

'''trip made by walking'''
{{top}}
*French: [[promenade#French|promenade]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[camminata]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''distance walked'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''manner of walking'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''path on which to walk'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''pavement/sidewalk on which to walk'''
''See'' '''[[pavement]]'''/[[sidewalk]]'''

'''baseball: instance of walking a batter'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Danish: [[gåtur]] (1); [[gang]] (2); [[fodsti]] (3)
*Dutch: [[wandeling]] (1), [[loopje]] (2), [[pad]] (3)
*Finnish: [[kävely]] (1, 2), [[kävelyretki]] (1), [[kävelyalue]] (3), [[kävelykatu]] (3)
*Hebrew: (halicha)
*Latin: [[ambulatio]] (1, 3)
*Spanish: [[paseo]] (1)
*Vietnamese: [[Đường|đường]] [[Đi|đi]] (1, 3), [[cách]] [[bước]] đi (2)

===Derived terms===
*[[race walk]]
*[[sidewalk]]
*[[space walk]], [[spacewalk]]
*[[sponsored walk]]
*[[walkathon]]
*[[walker]]
*[[walkie-talkie]]
*[[walk it]]
*[[Walkman]]&reg;
*[[walkover]]
*[[walk tall]]
*[[walk the walk]]

[[sv:walk]]
[[th:เดิน]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]