==English==
===Etymology===
From Middle English, from Old English [[wæter]]. Cognates include [[wet]], Greek [[ὕδωρ]] (hydor), Latin [[unda]], ''wave'', Gothic [[𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉]], German [[Wasser]], Russian [[вода]] (voda).
===Pronunciation===
*wô'tə(r), /ˈwɔːtə(r)/, /"wO:t@(r)/
<!-- this is British pronunciation but US pronunciation differs only due to rhoticity and cot-caught merger and is therefore systematic and does not warrant a separate transcription -->

===Noun===
'''water''' (''[[uncountable]] in most senses''), plural '''[[waters]]'''

#(''uncountable'') A clear liquid [[potable]] by humans and animals; the chemical H<small><sub>2</sub></small>O, dihydrogen monoxide.
#(''sometimes countable'') Mineral water.
#:''Perrier is the most popular water in this restaurant.''
#(''countable, often in plural'' '''waters''') Spa water.
#:''Many people visit Bath to take the waters.''
# (''alchemy'') One of the four basic elements.
#(''in plural'') A sea belonging to particular country.
#(''in plural'') Any body of water, such as a river or a lake.
#:''He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters.'' '''Psalms 23:2'''
 
====Translations====

'''clear liquid H<small><sub>2</sub></small>O'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Afrikaans:  water
*Albanian: [[ujë]]
*Arabic: [[ماء]] (māʔ)
*[[Aragones]]:  [[aigua]]
*[[Asturian]]: [[agua]]
*[[Aymara]]: [[uma]] 
*[[Azeri]]: [[su]]
*[[Basque]]: [[ur]]
*[[Bergamasco]]: [[ègua]]
*[[Bolognese]]: [[âcua]]
*Bosnian: [[voda]]
*[[Bresciano]]: [[aiva]]
*[[Breton]]: [[dour]] ''m'' (''plural'' dourioù, doureier)
*Belarusian: [[вaдa]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[aigua]] ''f''
*[[Chechen]]: [[khi]], [[хи]]?
*[[Cherokee]]: [[ᎠᎹ]] (ama)
*Chinese Characters: [[水]] ([[Pinyin]]: shuǐ)
*Chinese: [[水]] ([[Pinyin]]: shuǐ)
*Czech: [[voda]] ''f''
*[[Cornish]]: [[dowr]] ''m''
*Danish: vand
*Dutch: water ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[akvo]] 
*Estonian: [[vesi]]
*[[Faeroese]]: [[vatn]]
*Finnish: [[vesi]]
*[[French]]: [[eau]] ''f''
*[[Frisian]]: [[wetter]]
*[[Galician]]: [[auga]] ''f'', [[agua]] ''f''
*German: [[Wasser]] ''n''
*Greek, Ancient: [[ὕδωρ ]] (hydor)
*Greek, Modern: [[νερό]] (ner&oacute;) ''n''
*[[Guarani]]: [[y]]
*[[Hawaiian]]: [[wai]]
*Hebrew: [[מיים]] (mayim) ''m,plural'' 
*[[Hindi]]: [[पानी]] (paanii)
*Hungarian: [[víz]]
*Icelandic: [[vatn]]
*Indonesian: [[air#Indonesian|air]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Interlingua]]: [[aqua]]
*{{ga}}: [[uisce]]
*Italian: [[acqua]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[水]] ([[みず]], mizu)
*[[Javanese]]: [[banyu]]
*Latin: [[aqua]]
*Latvian: [[ūdens]]
*Lithuanian: [[vanduo]] 
*Malay: [[air#Malay|air]]
*Maltese: [[ilma]]
*[[Manchu]]: [[muke]]
*[[Maori]]: [[wai]]
*[[Nahuatl]]: [[atl]]
*Norwegian: [[vannet]]
*[[Occitan]]: [[aiga]]
*[[Persian]]: [[آب]] (āb)
*[[Piedmonteis]]: [[eva]]
*Polish: [[woda]]
*Portuguese: [[água]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[apă]] ''f''
*[[Romanica]]: [[aqua]] ''f''
*Russian: [[вода]] (voda)
*[[Saami]]: [[čáhci]]
*Samoan: [[vai]]
*Slovak: [[voda]] ''f''
*Somali: [[biyo]], [[waraabin]]
*Spanish: [[agua]] ''f''
*[[Sundanese]]: [[cai]]
*Swahili: [[maji]]
*Swedish: [[vatten]] 
*[[Tagalog]]: [[tubig]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [['y]]
*Turkish: [[su]]
*[[Tzotzil]]: [[voʻ]]
*[[Urdu]]: [[آب]] (aab)
*Vietnamese: [[nươc]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[vat]]
*Welsh: [[dŵr]]
*[[Zulu]]: [[amanzi]]
|}
|}

'''mineral water'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''spa water'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''in alchemy'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''waters: sea belonging to a particular country'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''waters: a body of water'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Slovene: [[voda]] ''f'' (4, 5, 6)

===Transitive verb===
'''to water''' ([[watered]], watered)

#To provide (animals) with water.
#:''I need to go '''water''' the cattle''.
#To pour water into the soil surrounding (plants).
#:''Sally '''watered''' the plants''.

====Translations====

'''provide (animals) with water'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*[[Catalan]]: [[donar]] [[aigua]] a
*Dutch: [[water geven]]
*Finnish: [[juottaa]]
*French: [[abreuver]]
*Italian: [[abbeverare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Portuguese: [[dar]] [[água]] a
*{{ro}}: [[adăpa]]
*Spanish: [[dar]] [[agua]] a
*Swedish: [[vattna]]
|}
|}

'''pour water into the soil surrounding (plants)'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*[[Catalan]]: [[regar]]
*Dutch: [[water geven]], [[sproeien]]
*Finnish: [[kastella]]
*French: [[arroser]]
*German: [[bewässern]]
*Italian: [[annaffiare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Portuguese: [[regar#Portuguese|regar]]
*{{ro}}: [[uda]]
*Spanish: [[regar#Portuguese|regar]]
*Swedish: [[vattna]]
|}
|}
 
=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.

*[[Breton]]: [[dourañ]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[doni akvon]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[wetter jaan]]
*[[Galician]]: [[augar]]
*German: [[gießen]]
*[[Guarani]]: [[mbo'y]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[aquar]], [[rigar]]
*Lithuanian: [[laistyti]]
*Norwegian: [[vanne]]
*[[Romanica]]: [[aquar]], [[rigar]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[mbo'y]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[vatön]]

===Derived terms===
*[[make water]]
*[[water board]]
*[[water down]]
*[[waterfall]]
*[[water wheel]]

----
==Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
<!-- these prounciations don't match - which one is correct?
     the SAMPA for 1 is /"wa:t@r/, the IPA for 2 is /watɜr/ -->
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'waːtər/
: SAMPA:/wat3r/

===Noun===
'''water''' ''n'' (Plural: [[waters]], Diminutive: [[watertje]], Plural diminutive [[watertjes]])

#water

===Intransitive verb===
'''water'''

# (''first-person singular present tense of [[wateren]]'') [[pee]], [[urinate]]

[[de:Wasser]]
[[fr:eau]]