'''Wh-movement''' is a [[syntactic]] phenomenon whereby [[interrogative word]]s (sometimes called ''wh-words'') appear at the beginning of an [[interrogative sentence]].  The term ''wh-movement'' is due to the fact that most English interrogative words start with ''wh-'', for example, ''what'', ''where'', ''why'', etc.  The term ''wh-movement'' is applied universally, even when the interrogative words of a given language (such as [[French language|French]]) do not start with ''wh-''.

According to [[Joseph Greenberg]]'s [[linguistic universal]] No.12, [[Verb Subject Object|VSO]] languages always have wh-movement, while [[Subject Object Verb|SOV]] languages never do.  Many [[Subject Verb Object|SVO]] languages have wh-movement too, such as [[English]], but some don't, such as [[Standard Mandarin|Mandarin]].  Languages without wh-movement are referred to as '''wh-in-situ''' languages.  

==Wh-movement in English==
English is one language that features wh-movement.  For example, a [[declarative sentence]] in English featuring normal [[word order]] would be:
: He buys bread.
The [[direct object]], "bread," of the [[verb]], "to buy," normally follows the verb, however, when the direct object is replaced with a wh-word in order to form a question, the wh-word generally appears at the beginning of the sentence:
: What does he buy?

In English main clauses, a form of "to do" must be used as in the absence of an [[auxiliary verb]].  The auxiliary verb (including a form of "to do") occurs after the wh-word and before the subject:
: He should buy bread.
: What should he buy?

In [[transformational grammar|transformational]] approaches to syntax, wh-movement is analyzed literally in terms of constituent movement, where a moved constituent leaves behind a silent [[trace]] (often indicated by a ''t''):
: What does he buy ''t''?

==Pied-piping==

'''Pied-piping''' is a process that occurs when wh-movement affects a phrase larger than a single wh-word.  In the case where the wh-word is a [[determiner]] such as ''which'' or ''whose'', pied-piping refers to the fact that the wh-determiner appears sentence intially along with its complement.  For instance, in the following example, the entire phrase "which car" is moved:
: Which car does he like ''t''?

In the transformational analysis, the wh-word ''which'' moves to the beginning of the sentence, luring its complement ''car'' with it, much like [[the Pied Piper of Hamelin]] attracted rats/children that would follow him, hence the term ''pied-piping''.

In the case of determiners, pied-piping is obligatory.  For instance, the following sentence would be ungrammatical:
: *Which does he like ''t'' car?

However, there are cases where pied-piping can be optional.  In English, this is often the case when a wh-word or phrase is the object of a [[preposition]].  For instance, the following two examples are both grammatical:
: To whom did she reveal her secret ''t''?
: Whom did she reveal her secret to ''t''?

The second example is a case of '''preposition stranding''', which is possible in English, but not allowed in [[Latin]] or other [[Romance languages]].  For languages that use [[postposition]]s rather than prepositions, stranding is not allowed either.

[[Prescriptive]] grammarians often claim that preposition stranding should be avoided in English as well, however in certain contexts, obligatory pied-piping of prepositions in English may make a sentence feel artificial or stilted.

==Extraction islands==
In many cases, a wh-word can move all the way to the front of a sentence, regardless of how far away it has to move.  For example:
: Who does Mary like ''t''?
: Who does Bob know that Mary likes ''t''?
: Who does Carl believe that Bob knows that Mary likes ''t''?

However there are cases in which it is not always possible to perform wh-movement.  Clauses from which a wh-word cannot be extracted are referred to as '''extraction islands'''.

===Adjunct islands===
An '''adjunct island''' is a type of island formed from an [[adjunct]] clause.  Wh-movement is not possible out of an adjunct clause.  Adjunct clauses include ''because'', ''if'', ''when'', and [[relative clause]]s.  Some examples include:
: Grammatical: You went home because you needed to do what?
: Ungrammatical: *What did you go home because you needed to do ''t''?

: Grammatical: Alex likes the woman who wears what?
: Ungrammatical: *What does Alex like the woman who wears ''t''?

===Wh-islands===
A '''wh-island''' is an island that is created by an embedded sentence which is introduced by a wh-word.  For instance, the clause "where Eric went to buy the gift" in the following example, is a wh-island:
: John wonders where Eric went to buy the gift.

Wh-islands are weaker than adjunct islands since extraction is often awkward but not necessarily considered ungrammatical by all speakers.
: Grammatical: John wonders where Eric went to buy what?
: Questionable: ?What does John wonder where Eric went to buy ''t''?

===Subject extraction===
It is typically easier to extract objects rather than subjects from a clause, especially when an overt [[complementizer]] such as "that" or "for" is used.  Take the following examples:
: Grammatical: Who do you believe ''t'' saw Tom?
: Ungrammatical: *Who do you believe that ''t'' saw Tom?
: Grammatical: Who do you believe Jim saw ''t''?
: Grammatical: Who do you believe that Jim saw ''t''?

===Subject clauses===
Wh-movement does not appear to be possible in clauses that appear in the subject position.  For instance, here is a sentence where the clause appears in the object position:
: It is likely that John went home.
Here is the same sentence where the clause appears in the subject position:
: That John went home is likely.

Notice that wh-movement can occur only in the clause that appears in the object position:
: Grammatical: Where is it likely that John went ''t''?
: Ungrammatical: *Where is that John went ''t'' likely?

[[Category:Syntax]]