==Etymology==
Wikify was originally a [[w:Nonce word|nonce word]], a.k.a. a [[w:hapax legemenon|hapax legemenon]], but as the popularity of wikis grew, so did the usage of the word. Wikify comes from the root word [[w:wiki|wiki]], which comes from the Hawaiian term for "quick" or "super-fast".

While the first-ever wiki is cited as the [[w:Portland Pattern Repository|Portland Pattern Repository]], the actual wiki is intended as a supplement and is separate from the PPR. The ''original'' PPR is '''''certainly'' not a wiki''' in the current sense of the word. However, the WikiWikiWeb section is, and the origins of wiki can be traced here. The site's founder, [[w:Ward Cunningham|Ward Cunningham]], who chose the name wiki-wiki, claims that the format was partially inspired by the [[w:Apple Macintosh|Apple Macintosh's]] [[w:Hypercard|Hypercard]].
==English==
===Pronunciation===
[[w:SAMPA chart for English|English SAMPA]]: /"wI:k.I.%faI/

===Verb===
to Wikify [or wikify] (past:Wikified, part. Wikifying)
#to adapt some text so that it meets the standards and uses the                          
:standards and facilities of the various information resources under           
:The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. (e.g. "<nowiki>[[Wikipedia]]</nowiki>" as            
:opposed to "Wikipedia").

==Other languages==
===Pronunciation===
[[w:X-SAMPA|X-SAMPA]]: ["wI:k.I.%faI]

[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'w&#618;&#720;k.&#618;.,f&#593;&#618;/
===Rough Transliterations===
[[w:Esperanto|Esperanto]]: Ŭikifai

[[w:French language|French]]: Wikifai

[[w:German language|German]]: Uikifei

[[w:Italian language|Italian]]: Uikifai

[[w:Polish language|Polish]]: Uikifaj

[[w:Portuguese language|Portuguese]]: Uikifei

[[w:Spanish language|Spanish]]: Uikifai

[[w:Swedish language|Swedish]]: Uikifai

<small>'''Note:''' In the transliterations of </small>''some''<small> of these languages, "ai" is just a guess. In these languages, the "&#593;&#618;" sound may not exist. If you are a speaker of one of these languages and know how to correctly [[w:transliterate|transliterate]] "&#593;&#618;" into your language, please replace "ai" with it! (&#593;&#618; is pronounced like the "y" in "sky".) Warning: </small>&#593;<small> and </small>&#618;<small> are different from the normal </small>a<small> and </small>i<small> characters.
</small>