==[[English]]==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ɻoŋ/
===Adjective===
'''wrong''' ([[more wrong]], [[most wrong]])

#[[Incorrect]] or [[untrue]]. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1592''': [[Among]] this [[princely]] [[heap]], if any here By [[false]] [[intelligence]] or [[wrong]] [[surmise]] [[Hold]] me a [[foe]] ... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Richard III'', Act II, Scene I, line 54.
#:*''Some of your answers were correct, and some were wrong.'' 
#[[Immoral]], not good, [[bad]]. 
#:*''It is wrong to lie.'' 
#[[Improper]]; [[unfit]]; [[unsuitable]]. 
#:*''A [[bikini]] is the wrong thing to wear on a cold day.'' 
#Not working; out of order. 
#:*''Something is wrong with my [[cellphone]]'' 
#[[Design]]ed to be [[worn]] or [[place]]d [[inward]]; as, the wrong side of a [[garment]] or of a piece of [[cloth]].
====Derived terms====
* [[wrong side out]]
====Translations====
*[[Balinese]]: [[pelih]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[verkeerd]] (1,2,3), [[mis]] (1,4), [[fout]] (1)
*[[French]]: [[faux]] (1),, [[mauvais]] (1,2,3), [[mal]], Il y a quelque chose qui [[cloche]] avec mon GSM (4)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[incorrecte]], [[erronee]] (1); [[illicite]], [[immoral]], [[mal]] (2); [[improprie]] (3); [[a torto]] (4)
*[[Indonesian]]: [[salah]] / [[keliru]] (1,2,3,4)
*[[Japanese]]: [[間違う]] (まちがう, machigau) (1,2), [[不適切]] (ふてきせつ, futekisetsu) (3), [[おかしい]] (okashii) (4)
*[[Portuguese]]: [[errado]] ''m'', [[errada]] ''f'' (1,2,3,4); [[incorreto]] ''m'', [[incorreta]] ''f'' (1); [[imoral]] ''m'' & ''f'' (2); [[impróprio]] ''m'', [[imprópria]] ''f'', [[inadequado]] ''m'', [[inadequada]] ''f'' (3)
*[[Spanish]]: [[incorrecto]] (1,3), [[malo]] (2), [[falso]] (1,3?)

===Noun===
#Something that is [[immoral]] or not good. 
#:''Injustice is a [[heinous]] wrong. ''
#The [[incorrect]] or [[unjust]] [[position]] or [[opinion]]. (Or is it the wronged?)
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1592''': I [[blame]] not her: she could say little less; She had the [[wrong]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry VI'', Part III, Act IV, Scene I, line 101.
#The [[opposite]] of [[right]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1607''': Thus much of this will make [[Black]] [[white]], [[foul]] [[fair]], [[wrong]] [[right]], [[Base]] [[noble]], [[old]] [[young]], [[coward]] [[valiant]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Timon of Athens'', Act IV, Scene III, line 28.

====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[misdaad]] ''f''
*[[French]]: [[crime]] ''m''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[injuria]], [[crimine]], [[peccato]], [[torto]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[injúria]] ''f'', [[crime]] ''m'', [[pecado]] ''m''
*[[Spanish]]: [[crimen]] ''m''

===Adverb===
'''wrong'''
#In a way that isn't right; done incorrectly, [[wrongfully]]. 
#:''I spelled several names wrong in my address book.'' 

====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[fout]], [[verkeerd]], [[mis]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[incorrectemente]], [[erroneemente]], [[a torto]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[incorretamente]], [[erroneamente]], [[erradamente]]

===Verb===
'''to wrong''' (wronged)
#To treat [[unjustly]]; to [[injure]] or [[harm]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1591''': [[Thou]] [[dost]] then [[wrong]] me, as that [[slaughterer]] doth Which [[giveth]] [[many]] [[wound]]s when [[one]] will [[kill]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry VI'', Part I, Act II, Scene IV, line 109.
#To [[deprive]] of some [[right]], or to [[withhold]] some act of [[justice]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1597''': ... And might by no [[suit]] [[gain]] our [[audience]]. When we are [[wrong'd]] and would [[unfold]] our [[grief]]s, We are [[denied]] [[access]] unto his person Even by those men that most have done us [[wrong]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry IV'', Part II, Act IV, Scene I, line 121.
#To [[slander]]; to [[impute]] [[evil]] to unjustly.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1598''': O [[master]]s! if I were [[dispose|dispos'd]] to to [[stir]] Your [[heart]]s and [[mind]]s to [[mutiny]] and [[rage]], I should do Brutus [[wrong]], and Cassius [[wrong]], Who (you all know) are [[honorable]] men.  I will not do them [[wrong]]; I [[rather]] [[choose]] To [[wrong]] the dead, to [[wrong]] myself and you, Than I will [[wrong]] such honorable men. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Julius Ceasar'', Act III, Scene II, line 121.
#:*''The [[dealer]] wronged us by selling us this [[lemon]] of a [[car]].''

====Translations====
*[[Dutch]]: [[benadelen]], [[onrecht aandoen]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[prejudicar]], [[offender]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[lesar]], [[prejudicar]], [[ofender]]

----

==[[Dutch]]==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /vroŋ/
===Verb===

'''wrong'''

#past tense singular of [[wringen]]

====Translations====
*[[English]]: [[wrung]]