{{buddhism}}

'''Zen''' ([[Japanese language|Japanese]]: Zen, &#31109;; [[Chinese language|Chinese]]: [[Ch&aacute;n]], &#31146;; [[Korean language|Korean]]: Seon, &#49440;; [[Sanskrit]]: [[dhyana|dhy{{a}}na]], &#2343;&#2381;&#2351;&#2366;&#2344;) is a branch of [[Mahayana|{{mahayana}}]] [[Buddhism]], practiced especially in [[Chinese Buddhism|China]], [[Japanese Buddhism|Japan]], and [[Korean Buddhism|Korea]], that incorporates [[Taoist]] thought. It stresses the role of [[meditation]] in pursuing [[Enlightenment (Buddhism)|enlightenment]].  Because Zen is the name for this branch in [[Japanese language|Japanese]] as well as in [[English language|English]], this article will concern itself with both traditional Zen in Japan and with Zen as an international phenomenon.  For information specific to [[Asia]]n countries other than Japan, please follow the appropriate links below.

==Spread of Zen==

Traditionally, Zen traces its roots back to [[Indian Buddhism]], where it was known by "[[dhyana|dhy{{a}}na]]" (&#2343;&#2381;&#2351;&#2366;&#2344;), a [[Sanskrit]] term for meditation. This name was [[transliterate]]d into [[Chinese]] as ''[[Chan|Ch&aacute;n]]'' (&#31146;); "Ch&aacute;n" was later transliterated into [[Korean]] as ''[[Seon]]'', and then into Japanese as "Zen."

According to these traditional accounts, an Indian monk named [[Bodhidharma]] brought Zen Buddhism to [[China]] in the [[5th century|fifth century]]. Later, [[Korea|Korean]] monks studying in [[China]] learned of Zen and spread it as far as to Japan around the seventh century.

Zen or Ch'an, [[Buddhist]] school that developed in [[China]] and later in [[Japan]] as the result of a fusion between the Mahayana form of Buddhism originating in India and the Chinese philosophy of Taoism. [[Zen]] and Ch'an are, respectively, the Japanese and Chinese ways of pronouncing the Sanskrit term dhyana, which designates a state of mind roughly equivalent to contemplation or meditation, although without the static and passive sense that these words sometimes convey. Dhyana denotes specifically the state of consciousness of a Buddha, one whose mind is free from the assumption that the distinct individuality of oneself and other things is real. All schools of Buddhism hold that separate things exist only in relation to one another; this relativity of individuals is called their "voidness" (Sanskrit sunyata), which means not that the world is truly nothing but that nature cannot be grasped by any system of fixed definition or classification. Reality is the "suchness" (Pali tathata) of nature, or the world "just as it is" apart from any specific thoughts about it.

==Zen in Japan==

The following Zen traditions still exist in Japan: [[Rinzai]], [[Soto]], and [[Obaku School|Obaku]].  Originally formulated by the [[eponym]]ous Chinese master [[Linji]] (Rinzai in Japanese), the Rinzai school was introduced to [[Japan]] in [[1191]] by [[Eisai]]. [[Dogen]], who studied under Eisai, would later carry the [[Caodong]], or "Soto" Zen school to Japan from China.  Obaku was introduced in the 17th century by a [[Ingen]], a Chinese monk.



==Zen teachings and practices==

Zen teachings often criticize [[text]]ual [[Hermeneutics|study]] and [[praxeology|worldly]] [[action (philosophy)|action]], concentrating primarily on meditation in pursuit of an unmediated awareness of the processes of the world and the mind. However, these teachings are themselves also deeply rooted in the Buddhist textual tradition, drawing primarily on [[Mahayana|{{mahayana}}]] sutras composed in India and China, and on the recorded teachings of masters in the various Zen traditions themselves. The key beliefs of Zen focus primarily on The Four Noble Truths and The Noble Eightfold Path. 

===Zazen===

Zen meditation is called [[zazen]]. Zazen translates approximately to "sitting meditation", although it can be applied to practice in any posture. During zazen, practitioners usually assume a [[lotus position|lotus]], half-lotus, burmese, or seiza position. Rinzai practitioners typically sit facing the center of the room, while Soto practitioners sit facing a wall. Awareness is directed towards complete cognizance of one's posture and breathing. In this way, practitioners seek to transcend thought and be directly aware of the universe.

In Soto, [[shikantaza]] meditation, sometimes translated as "just-sitting," i.e., a meditation with no objects, anchors, "seeds," or content, is the primary form of practice. Considerable textual, philosophical, and phenomenological justification of this practice can be found in Dogen's Shobogenzo.

===Koan practice===
The Zen schools (especially but not exclusively Rinzai) also employ [[koan|koans]] (Japanese; Chinese: gongan; Korean: gong'an). The term is borrowed from that for a signpost used in ancient China, on which new laws were announced to the public. In much the same sense, a koan embodies a realized principle, or law of reality. Koans, which are often paradoxical are not meant to be apprehended rationally but rather to be realized in experience.

===Doctrines and Practices===
Zen is the peculiarly Chinese way of accomplishing the Buddhist goal of seeing the world just as it is, that is, with a mind that has no grasping thoughts or feelings (Sanskrit trishna). This attitude is called "no-mind" (Chinese wu-hsin), a state of consciousness wherein thoughts move without leaving any trace. Unlike other forms of Buddhism, Zen holds that such freedom of mind cannot be attained by gradual practice but must come through direct and immediate insight (Chinese tun-wu; Japanese satori). Thus, Zen abandons both theorizing and systems of spiritual exercise and communicates its vision of truth by a method known as direct pointing. Its exponents answer all philosophic or religious questions by nonsymbolic words or actions; the answer is the action just as it is, and not what it represents. Typical is the reply of the Zen master Yao-shan, who, on being asked "What is the Way [of Zen]?" answered, "A cloud in the sky and water in the jug!" Zen students prepare themselves to be receptive to such answers by sitting in meditation (Japanese za-zen) while they simply observe, without mental comment, whatever may be happening.

=="Zen" in Western pop-culture==

Many modern students have made the mistake of thinking that since much of Zen sounds like nonsense, especially in translation and out of context, any clever nonsense is also Zen. This is not the case, but see [[Discordianism]] and the [[Church of the SubGenius]] for modern semiserious religions influenced by this idea.

==See also==
*[[Chan]]
*[[koan]]
*[[Seon]]
*[[Tathagatagarbha doctrine#Tath&#257;gatagarbha in Zen|Buddha-nature]]

== External links ==
*[http://meditation.org.au/zen.asp Zen meditation - what is it?]
*[http://directory.google.com/Top/Society/Religion_and_Spirituality/Buddhism/Lineages/Zen/Centers/ Google Directory - Zen Centers]
*[http://search.looksmart.com/p/browse/us1/us317837/us317918/us969562/us1142622/us59257/us548359/us10012359 Zen Buddhism] from [[LookSmart]]
*[http://dmoz.org/Society/Religion_and_Spirituality/Buddhism/Lineages/Zen/ Zen Buddhism] from the [[Open Directory Project]]
*[http://dir.yahoo.com/Society_and_Culture/Religion_and_Spirituality/Faiths_and_Practices/Buddhism/Schools__Lineages__and_Sects/Zen/ Zen Buddhism] from [[Yahoo!]]
*[http://www.acmuller.net/ddb Digital Dictionary of Buddhism]
*[http://www.dailyzen.com/ Daily Zen]
*[http://www.e-sangha.com/ E-Sangha Buddhism Portal]

==Further reading ==
*''The Compass of Zen'' (ISBN 1570623295), [[Zen Master Seung Sahn]]
*''Three Zen Masters: Ikkyu, Hakuin, Ryokan (Kodansha Biographies)'' (ISBN 4770016514; [[1993]], [[John Stevens (scholar)|John Stevens]]
*''Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind'' (ISBN 0834800799), [[Shunryu Suzuki]]. A good introduction to the practice of Zen.
*''Zen Keys'' (ISBN 0385475616) and ''Heart of Buddha's Teaching'' (ISBN 0767903692), by [[Thich Nhat Hanh]]
*''The Three Pillars of Zen: Teaching, Practice, and Enlightenment'', [[Philip Kapleau]] (ISBN 0385260938). A comprehensive guide to the practice of Zen
*''Empty Mirror: Experiences in a Japanese Zen Monastery'' (ISBN 0312207743), ''Glimpse of Nothingness: Experiences in an American Zen Community'' (ISBN 0312209452) and ''After Zen: Experiences of a Zen Student Out On His Ear'' (ISBN 0312272618), the Zen trilogy by [[Janwillem van de Wetering]]

[[Category:Branches of Buddhism]]
[[Category:Japanese culture]]


[[de:Zen]]
[[eo:Zen-budhismo]]
[[es:Zen]]
[[fr:Zen]]
[[ja:&#31109;]]
[[pl:Zen]]
[[pt:Zen]]
[[zh:&#31109;&#23447;]]