==English==
'''zero''' /'zirou/

===Cardinal number===
*[[w:Arabic Numerals|Arabic numerals]]: 0
*[[w:Chinese numerals|Chinese numerals]]: 零, 〇
**Next: [[one]], 1

===Noun===

# The [[number]] or [[numeral]] 0, which means no quantity or amount at all. When you add zero to any number or subtract zero from any number, the number remains the same. 
#A point on a thermometer or other scale at which numbering or measurement begins. The temperature outside is ten degrees above zero Fahrenheit. 
# Nothing, nought. The business did not lose money, but its profit was zero.
# ''Slang'' A person of little or no importance.
# (''Mathematics'') (''of a function'') A [[root]].

====Synonyms====

* (1, 2) [[cipher]], [[nought]]
* (3) [[nada]], [[naught]], [[nothing]], [[nought]], [[nowt]], [[sod all]], [[zilch]], [[zip]]
* (4) cipher, [[nobody]]
* (5) [[root]]

====Translations====

*[[Arabic]]: [[صِفْر]] (Sifrun)
*[[Breton]]: [[mann]], [[zero]] (1,2)
*[[Catalan]]: [[zero]] (1, 2), [[res]] (3), [[zero a l'esquerra]] (4)
*[[Chinese]]: [[零]]
*[[Corsican]]: [[zeru]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[nul]] (1,2,3,4), [[nulpunt]] (2)
*[[Ekspreso]]: [[sero]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[nulo]] (1,2,3), [[nululo]] (4)
*[[Estonian]]: [[null]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[nolla]] (1,2,3,4)
*[[French]]: [[zéro]] ''m'' (1, 2)
*[[Frisian]]: [[nul]]
*[[German]]: [[Null]] ''f''
*[[Hungarian]]: [[nulla]], [[zéró]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[nol]]
*[[Italian]]: zero ''m'' (1, 2), ''pl'' [[zeri]]
*[[Interlingua]]: zero (1,2,3,4); [[nihil]] (3)
*[[Japanese]]: [[〇]] ([[まる]], maru), [[○]] ([[まる]], maru), [[無]] ([[む]], mu), [[零]] ([[れい]], rei), [[零点]] ([[れいてん]], reiten), [[ゼロ]] (zero)
*[[Korean]]: [[영]] [零] (yeong)
*[[Portuguese]]: zero ''m'' (1, 2, 3, 4); [[nada]] ''m'' (3); [[zero à esquerda]] ''m'' (4)
*[[Polish]]: zero (1,2,3,4)
*[[Romanian]]: [[zero]] ''n'' (1, 2, 3, 4)
*[[Slovio]]:  [[nul]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[cero]] ''m'' (1, 2, 3), [[nada]] ''f'' (3), [[nulo]] ''m'' (3), [[nula]] ''f'' (3), [[don nadie]] ''m'' (4), [[cero a la izquierda]] ''m'' (4)
*[[Swedish]]: [[nolla]] (1, 2)
*[[Turkish]]: [[sıfır]]
*[[Vietnamese]]: [[số không]] (1,2; [[International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: /só koʊŋ/), [[zêrô]] (1,2; [[International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: /sero/)

===Expressions===

*[[ground zero]]
*[[zero hour]]

----

===Adjective===

#Not there; nonexistent, none at all; not any. ''The team had zero victories last season.''
#At, being, or of zero. ''The temperature dropped to zero degrees Fahrenheit last night.''
 
====Translations====

*[[Breton]]: [[ebet]] (1)
*[[Catalan]]: [[cap]] (1), [[zero]] (2)
*[[Dutch]]: [[geen]] (1), [[geen enkel]] (1)
*[[Estonian]]: [[null]] (1,2), [[mitte ühtegi]] (1), [[mitte midagi]] (1)
*[[Finnish]]: [[nolla]] (1,2), [[ei lainkaan]] (1)
*[[German]]: kein (1)  
*[[Hungarian]]: [[nulla]], egyetlen sem
*[[Interlingua]]: zero, [[nulle]], [[necun]]
*[[Italian]]: [[non]] + ''verb'' + [[nessun]] + ''singular m noun'', [[non]] + ''verb'' + [[nessuno]] + ''singular m noun beginning with s + consonant, gn, ps, x or z'', [[non]] + ''verb'' + [[nessuna]] + ''singular f noun'' (1), zero (2)
*[[Portuguese]]: zero, [[nenhum/a]]
*[[Romanian]]: [[zero]] ''n'' (1, 2), [[nici un]] (1)
*[[Spanish]]: [[cero]], [[ningún/a]]
*[[Swedish]]: [[noll]]

====Synonyms====

* (1) [[no]]
* (2) [[naught]], [[nought]]

====Antonyms====

* (1) [[some]]

-----

===Verb===

# To [[set]] to zero.

====Synonyms====

*[[tare]], [[zeroise]], [[zeroize]]

====Translations====

*[[Catalan]]: [[posar a zero]]
*[[Estonian]]: [[nullima]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[nollata]]
*[[French]]: [[mettre]] à zéro
*[[Hungarian]]: [[nulláz]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[reducer]] a zero, [[adjustar]] a zero
*[[Italian]]: [[azzerare]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[zerar]]
*[[Romanian]]: [[a reduce]] [[la]] [[zero]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[poner]] a [[cero]]
*[[Swedish]]: [[nolla]], [[nollställa]]