{{see|zéro}} ''and'' [[0]]

==English==
===Pronunciation===
*''US, Aus:'' {{AHD|zē'rō}}, {{IPA|/ˈziːrəʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"zi:r@U/}}
*''[[RP]]:'' {{IPA|/ˈzɪərəʊ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"zI@r@U/}}

====Pronunciation note====
In certain areas, to save time or to keep a rhythm in pronouncing repeated [[digit]]s, the pronunciation of zero is often shortened to that of the letter '''[[o|O]]'''. This is common in saying [[telephone number]]s, or words such as "[[w:007|007]]".

===Cardinal number===
*[[w:Arabic numerals|Arabic numerals]]: 0
*[[w:Chinese numerals|Chinese numerals]]: 零, 〇
**Next: [[one]], 1

===Noun===
'''zero''' (''plural:'' '''[[zeros]]''' ''or'' '''[[zeroes]]''')

# The [[cardinal number]], which means no quantity or amount at all.
#:''When you add'' zero ''to (or subtract'' zero ''from) any number, the result is the original number.''
# The [[numeral]] [[0]] a symbol which represents the number zero.
#:''When she found none, she wrote down a'' zero.
# The [[digit]] 0, zero, in the [[decimal]], [[binary]], and all other [[base]] numbering systems.
#:''One million has six'' zeros.
# A point on a scale at which numbering or measurement begins.
#:''The temperature outside is ten degrees above'' zero ''Fahrenheit.''
# Nothing, nought. 
#:''The business did not lose money, but its profit was'' zero.
#{{slang}} A person of little or no importance.
#{{mathematics}} (''of a function'') A value of the function’s [[independent variable]] for which the function is equal to zero.
#:''x''<sup>2</sup> &minus; 1 ''has zeros at'' +1 ''and'' &minus;1
#{{mathematics}} the [[neutral element]] with respect to [[addition]] in a [[ring]].
# Setting of a [[firearm]]. (See [[zero in]].)
# The only real number that is neither positive nor negative.

====Synonyms====
*number,numeral: [[cipher]], [[nil]], [[nought]], [[null]]
*nothing: [[bugger all]], [[nada]], [[naught]], [[nothing]], [[nought]], [[nowt]], [[null]], [[sod all]], [[sweet FA]], [[sweet Fanny Adams]], [[zilch]], [[zip]]
*a person: cipher, [[nobody]]
*of a function: [[root]]
*digit: [[slashed zero]]

====Related terms====
*[[absolute zero]]
*[[aleph-zero]]
*[[division by zero]]
*[[ground zero]]
*[[sub-zero]]
*[[zero hour]]
*[[zero in on]]
*[[zero-point energy]]
*[[zero-rated]]
*[[zero-sum]]
*[[zero-sum game]]
*[[zeroth]]
*[[zero tolerance]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[صفر|صِفْر]]}} {{Unicode|(ṣifr)}}
*Bosnian: [[nula#Bosnian|nula]] {{f}} (1,2,3,4,5)
*Breton: [[mann]], zero (1,2)
*Bulgarian: [[нула]] (nula)
*Catalan: [[zero#Catalan|zero]] (1,2), [[res]] (3), [[zero a l'esquerra]] (4)
*Chinese: [[零]] (líng)
*[[Corsican]]: [[zeru]]
*Croatian: [[nula]]
*Czech: [[nula#Czech|nula]]
*Danish: [[nul#Danish|nul]]
*Dutch: [[nul#Dutch|nul]] (1,2,3,4), [[nulpunt]] (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[nulo]] (1,2,3), [[nululo]] (4)
*Estonian: [[null#Estonian|null]]
*[[Filipino]]: [[sero]] (1), [[wala]] (3)
*Finnish: [[nolla]] (1,2,3,4), [[nollakohta]] (5), [[lukitus]] (7)
*French: [[zéro]] {{m}} (1,2)
*[[Frisian]]: [[nul#Frisian|nul]]
*German: [[Null]] {{f}} (1,2,3,4,6), [[Nichts]] {{n}} (4), [[Nullstelle]] {{f}} (5)
*Greek: [[μηδέν]] (midén) {{n}}
*Hebrew: [[אפס]] (éffes) (1,2)
*Hungarian: [[nulla]], [[zéró]]
*Indonesian: [[nol]]
*Interlingua: [[zero#Interlingua|zero]] (1,2,3,4,5); [[nihil]] (3)
*Italian: [[zero#Italian|zero]] {{m}} (1,2)
*Icelandic: [[núll]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[〇]] ([[まる]], maru), [[○]] ([[まる]], maru), [[無]] ([[む]], mu), [[零]] ([[れい]], rei), [[零点]] ([[れいてん]], reiten), [[ゼロ]] (zéro)
*Korean: [[영]] [零] (yeong)
*Latvian: [[nulle]] {{f}} (1,2,3,4,5,8)
*Norwegian: [[null#Norwegian|null]]
*[[Novial]]: [[sero, zero]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[صفر|صِفر]]}} (sefr)
*Polish: zero (1,2,3,4)
*Portuguese: [[zero#Portuguese|zero]] {{m}} (1,2,3,4,5); [[nada]] {{m}} (3); [[zero à esquerda]] {{m}} (4) <!-- Query this...does this mean "zero from the left"/"zero from below"? ANSWER: lit., "zero to the left," hence "completely useless," "a nonentity," "a big zero." -->
*Romanian: [[zero#Romanian|zero]] {{n}} (1,2,3,4)
*Russian: [[нуль]] (nul’) {{m}}
*Sanskrit: [[shuunyá]]
*Serbian: [[нула]] (nula)
*Slovak: [[nula]]
*Slovio: [[nul]]
*Spanish: [[cero]] {{m}} (1,2,3,5), [[nada]] {{f}} (3), [[nulo]] {{m}} (3), [[nula]] {{f}} (3), [[don nadie]] {{m}} (4), [[cero a la izquierda]] {{m}} (4) <!-- Query this...does this mean "zero from the left"/"zero from below"? ANSWER: lit., "zero to the left," hence "completely useless," "a nonentity," "a big fat zero." -->, [[raíz]] {{f}} (5)
*Swedish: [[nolla]] (1,2), [[nollställe]] (5)
*{{te}}: [[సున్నా]] (sunnaa), [[శూన్యం]] (SUnyaM) (3)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[ศูนย์]]}} (súún)
*Turkish: [[sıfır]]
*Ukrainian: [[зеро]] (zero)
*Vietnamese: [[số không]] (1,2), [[zêrô]] (1,2)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|zero||}}
# {{transitive}} To [[set]] (a measuring instrument) to zero; to [[reset]] a [[variable]] in a [[computer program]] to zero.

====Synonyms====
* [[tare]]
* [[zeroise]], [[zeroize]]

====Translations====
'''to set to zero'''
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[posar a zero]]
*Czech: [[vynulovat]]
*Dutch: [[op]] [[nul]] [[zetten]]
*Estonian: [[nullima]]
*Finnish: [[nollata]]
*French: [[mettre]] à zéro
*German: [[nullen]], auf Null [[stellen]]
*Greek: [[μηδενίζω]] (midenízo)
*Hungarian: [[nulláz]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[reducer]] a zero, [[adjustar]] a zero
*Italian: [[azzerare]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[wyzerować]]
*Portuguese: [[zerar]]
*Romanian: [[a reduce]] [[la]] zero
*Russian: [[настраивать]] [[на]] [[нуль]] (nastráivat’ na nul’)
*Spanish: [[poner]] a [[cero]]
*Swedish: [[nolla]], [[nollställa]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[zero in]] / [[zero in on]]

[[Category:English irregular plurals]]


----

==Italian==
===Noun===
'''zero''' {{m}} (''plural:'' '''zeri''')

#zero (''number, numeral'')
[[Category:it:Cardinal numbers]]


----
==Japanese==
===Romaji===
[[Category:Romaji]]
'''zero'''
*{{japdef|ゼロ|zero}}


----
==Portuguese==
===Noun===
'''zero''' {{m}}

#zero
[[Category:pt:Cardinal numbers]]
====Pronunciation====
*(''as pronounced in São Paulo'') {{IPA|/ˈzɛru/}}

[[Category:Cardinal numbers]]

[[ang:zero]]
[[ca:zero]]
[[el:zero]]
[[es:zero]]
[[fr:zero]]
[[io:zero]]
[[it:zero]]
[[ja:zero]]
[[pl:zero]]
[[pt:zero]]
[[ru:zero]]
[[fi:zero]]
[[sv:zero]]
[[ta:zero]]
[[zh:zero]]