==Ojibwe==
===ᔒᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibens'')===

====Etymology====
# [[zhiishiib#ᔒᐦᔒᑉ (zhiishiib)|ᔒᐦᔒᑉ (''zhiishiib'')]]
# -ens (diminutive suffix)

====Animate noun====
#small [[duck#noun|duck (1)]]
#small [[teal#noun|teal (1)]]
#[[duckling]]

====Related terms====
*(3): [[zhiishiibiins|ᔒᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibiins'')]]

====Transformations====
# ᔒᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibens'') unaffected
# ᔖᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhaashiibens'') initial change
# ᔖᔒᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhaazhiishiibens'') reduplication
# ᔕᐦᔮᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhayaazhiishiibens'') initial change reduplication
# ᔥᐦᔮᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhyaazhiishiibens'') initial change reduplication with syncope

====Other Syllabic forms====
*Fully pointed mixed-finals: ᔒᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ
*Fully-pointed Eastern A-finals: ᔒᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ
*Common Eastern A-finals: ᔒᔒᐯᓐᔅ
*Unpointed Eastern A-finals: ᔑᔑᐯᔅ

====Other Roman orthographies====
* Algonquin: ''jîcîbens''
** Cuoq: ''cicibens''
* Manitoba Saulteaux: ''šīhšīpēnhs''
** Ontario Saulteaux: ''shiihshiipenhs''
* Baraga: ''jishibens''

====Dictionary information====
*Baraga:
*Cuoq:
*Nichols & Nyholm: 127a-18.2
*Rhodes:

===References===
*[http://www.freelang.net/dictionary/ojibwe.html Freelang Electronic Ojibwe Dictionary]
*Baraga, Frederic. 1878. ''A Dictionary of the Otchipwe Language, explained in English''.  Montréal: Beauchemin & Valois.
*Cuoq, Joseph. 1886. ''Lexique de la Langue Algonquine''.  Montréal: J. Chapleau & Fils.
*Nichols, John D. and Earl Nyholm. 1995. ''A Concise Dictionary of Minnesota Ojibwe''. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
*Rhodes, Richard A. 1985. ''Eastern Ojibwa-Chippewa-Ottawa Dictionary''. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.

[[Category:Ojibwe birds]]