
==Ojibwe==
===ᔒᐦᔒ (''zhiishii'')===

====Reduplication====
#Initial syllable reduplication for ᔒ (''zhii'')

====Other Syllabic forms====
*Fully pointed mixed-finals: ᔒᐦᔒ
*Fully-pointed Eastern A-finals: ᔒᐦᔒ
*Common Eastern A-finals: ᔒᔒ
*Unpointed Eastern A-finals: ᔑᔑ

====Other Roman orthographies====
*Algonquin: jîcî
**Cuoq: cici
*Manitoba Saulteaux: šīhšī
**Ontario Saulteaux: shiihshii
*Baraga: jishi

====Dictionary information====
*Baraga:
*Cuoq:
*EOCOD:
*CDMO:

===ᔒᐦᔒᐝ (''zhiishii'')===
====Etmology====
# {{PA.}} *''šīʔšīy'' (gourd/rattle)

====Verb root====
#Verb root for words that indicate rattling.
=====Derived terms=====
#ᔒᐦᔒᐝᑯ (''zhiishiigo'')
#:ST [[Rattle#Intransitive verb|rattle]]s
#[[zhiishiigwe#ᔒᐦᔒᐝᑴ (zhiishiigwe)|ᔒᐦᔒᐝᑴ (''zhiishiigwe'')]]
#:SB [[Rattle#Intransitive verb|rattle]]s
#:[[Rattlesnake]]
#ᔒᐦᔒᐝᑾᓐ (''zhiishiigwan'')
#:SB [[Rattle#Transitive verb|rattle]]s ST
#:[[Rattle#Noun|Rattle]]
#ᔒᐦᔒᐝᑾᓇᓐ (''zhiishiigwanan'')
#:SB [[Rattle#Transitive verb|rattle]]s SB

====Transformations====
*Unaffected: ᔒᐦᔒᐝ (''zhiishii'')
*Initial change: ᔖᐦᔒᐝ (''zhaashii'')
*Reduplication: ᔖᔒᐦᔒᐝ (''zhaazhiishii'')
*Initial change reduplication: ᔕᐦᔮᔒᐦᔒᐝ (''zhayaazhiishii'')
**Initial change reduplication with syncope: ᔥᐦᔮᔒᐦᔒᐝ (''zhyaazhiishii'')

====Other Syllabic forms====
*Fully pointed mixed-finals: ᔒᐦᔒᐝ
*Fully-pointed Eastern A-finals: ᔒᐦᔒ
*Common Eastern A-finals: ᔒᔒ
*Unpointed Eastern A-finals: ᔑᔑ

===Other Roman orthographies===
* Algonquin: ''jîcî''
** Cuoq: ''cici''
* Manitoba Saulteaux: ''šīhšī''
** Ontario Saulteaux: ''shiihshii''
* Baraga: ''jishi''

====Dictionary information====
*Baraga:
*Cuoq: 087c
*EOCOD:
*CDMO:

===References===
*[http://www.freelang.net/dictionary/ojibwe.html Freelang Electronic Ojibwe Dictionary]
*Baraga, Frederic. 1878. ''A Dictionary of the Otchipwe Language, explained in English''.  Montréal: Beauchemin & Valois.
*Cuoq, Joseph. 1886. ''Lexique de la Langue Algonquine''.  Montréal: J. Chapleau & Fils.
*Nichols, John D. and Earl Nyholm. 1995. ''A Concise Dictionary of Minnesota Ojibwe''. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
*Rhodes, Richard A. 1985. ''Eastern Ojibwa-Chippewa-Ottawa Dictionary''. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.

[[Category:oj:Reduplication]]
[[Category:oj:Verb roots]]