==Ojibwe==
===ᔒᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibiins'')===

====Etymology====
# [[zhiishiib#ᔒᐦᔒ (zhiishiib)|ᔒᐦᔒ (''zhiishiib'')]]
# -ens (diminutive suffix)

====Animate noun====
#[[duckling]]

====Related terms====
*[[zhiishiibens|ᔒᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibens'')]](3)

====Transformations====
# ᔒᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibens'') unaffected
# ᔖᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ(''zhaashiibens'') initial change
# ᔖᔒᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ(''zhaazhiishiibens'') reduplication
# ᔕᐦᔮᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ(''zhayaazhiishiibens'') initial change reduplication
# ᔥᐦᔮᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ(''zhyaazhiishiibens'') initial change reduplication with syncope

====Other Syllabic forms====
*Fully pointed mixed-finals: ᔒᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ
*Fully-pointed Eastern A-finals: ᔒᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ
*Common Eastern A-finals: ᔒᔒᐱᓐᔅ
*Unpointed Eastern A-finals: ᔑᔑᐱᔅ

====Other Roman orthographies====
* Algonquin: ''jîcîbîns''
** Cuoq: ''cicibins''
* Manitoba Saulteaux: ''šīhšīpīnhs''
** Ontario Saulteaux: ''shiihshiipiinhs''
* Baraga: ''jishibins''

====Dictionary information====
*Baraga:
*Cuoq:
*Nichols & Nyholm:
*Rhodes:

===References===
*[http://www.freelang.net/dictionary/ojibwe.html Freelang Electronic Ojibwe Dictionary]
*Baraga, Frederic. 1878. ''A Dictionary of the Otchipwe Language, explained in English''.  Montréal: Beauchemin & Valois.
*Cuoq, Joseph. 1886. ''Lexique de la Langue Algonquine''.  Montréal: J. Chapleau & Fils.
*Nichols, John D. and Earl Nyholm. 1995. ''A Concise Dictionary of Minnesota Ojibwe''. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
*Rhodes, Richard A. 1985. ''Eastern Ojibwa-Chippewa-Ottawa Dictionary''. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.

[[Category:Ojibwe birds]]