==Ojibwe==
===ᔒᐦᔒᑉ (''zhiishiib'')===
<!-- The heading (level 3) here should describe the part of speech, or otherwise describe what kind of term that this is.  What you now have as a heading should represent in bold letters how the term is normally written.  Inflections often go here. -->
<!-- Inflections here would *not* be a good idea with Algonquian languages because that is what will take up tonnes of memory.  I would instead recommend a link to the appropriate inflections table that would indicate for this type of animate noun beginning with "zh" and ending with /b/ (or /by/ in the next section).  Depending on animacy, diminutives, contemplatives, possessives, obviatives, locative, and dependencies, and also depending on the combinations of these, the inflections become staggering.  For the sake of memory conservation, the link should take the user to a standard grammatical table, which would then allow the user to select the correct combination in the correct order through successive grammatical tables by building in the proper linkages. CJLippert -->

====Animate noun====
#[[duck#noun|duck]]

=====Independent compounds=====
*ᒪᐦᑲᑌᔒᐦᔒᑉ (''makade-zhiishiib'')
*ᔒᐦᔒᐱᓰᐱ (''Zhiishiibi-ziibi'')

=====Dependent compounds=====
*ᔒᐦᔒᐸᐦᑭᐦᒄ (''zhiishiibakik'')
*ᔒᐦᔒᐸᐧᓂᐝ (''zhiishiibanwi'')

=====Derived terms=====
*ᔒᐦᔒᐯᔾ (''zhiishiibenh'')
*ᔒᐦᔒᐯᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibens'')

====Affix====
# [[shib|ᐦᔑᑉ (''shib'')]]

====Variant====
# [[zhiishiib#ᔒᐦᔒ (zhiishiib)|ᔒᐦᔒ (''zhiishiib'')]]

====Transformations====
# ᔒᐦᔒᑉ (''zhiishiib'') unaffected
# ᔖᐦᔒᑉ(''zhaashiib'') initial change
# ᔖᔒᐦᔒᑉ(''zhaazhiishiib'') reduplication
# ᔕᐦᔮᐦᔒᑉ(''zhayaazhiishiib'') initial change reduplication
# ᔥᐦᔮᐦᔒᑉ(''zhyaazhiishiib'') initial change reduplication with syncope

====Other Roman orthographies====
* Algonquin: ''jîcîb''
** Cuoq: ''cicib'' (086b)
* Ontario Saulteaux: ''shiihshiip''
* Manitoba Saulteaux: ''šīhšīp''
* Baraga: ''jiship''

===ᔒᐦᔒ (''zhiishiib'')===
<!-- It is not clear why you want to repeat this heading -->
<!-- It is repeated because first section was "zhiishiib" with the root /zhiishiib/ but this is "zhiishiib" with the root /zhiishiiby/, which in Roman letters would appear identical until you look at the syllabics.  Consequently, the first yields the diminutive "zhiishiibens" while this would yield the diminutive "zhiishiibiins".  "Zhiishiibens" is a small duck (duckling or a small adult duck) while "zhiishiibiins" is a duckling (never a small adult duck).  Consequently, "ducky" would be "zhiishiibenh" while a "baby ducky" would be "zhiishiibiinh."  In other words, the difference is sort of like the "wa" in Japanese written with は vs. わ.  CJLippert -->
====Etymology====
# < [[zhiishiib#ᔒᐦᔒᑉ (zhiishiib)|ᔒᐦᔒᑉ (''zhiishiib'')]]

====Animate noun====
#[[duck#noun|duck]]

=====Dependent compounds=====
#ᔒᐦᔒᐱᐦᑯᒋᑲᓐ (''zhiishiibikojigan'')
#ᔒᐦᔒᐱᐦᔑᒧᓐ (''zhiishiibishimon'')

=====Derived terms=====
#ᔒᐦᔒᐲᔾ (''zhiishiibiinh'')
#ᔒᐦᔒᐲᓐᐦᔅ (''zhiishiibiins'')

====Transformations====
# ᔒᐦᔒ (''zhiishiib'') unaffected
# ᔖᐦᔒ(''zhaashiib'') initial change
# ᔖᔒᐦᔒ(''zhaazhiishiib'') reduplication
# ᔕᐦᔮᐦᔒ(''zhayaazhiishiib'') initial change reduplication
# ᔥᐦᔮᐦᔒ(''zhyaazhiishiib'') initial change reduplication with syncope

====Other Roman orthographies====
* Algonquin: ''jîcîb''
** Cuoq: ''cicip''
* Ontario Saulteaux: ''shiihshiip''
* Manitoba Saulteaux: ''šīhšīp''
* Baraga: ''jiship''

===References===
*[http://www.freelang.net/dictionary/ojibwe.html Freelang Electronic Ojibwe Dictionary]
*Baraga, Frederic. 1878. ''A Dictionary of the Otchipwe Language, explained in English''.  Montréal: Beauchemin & Valois.
*Cuoq, Joseph. 1886. ''Lexique de la Langue Algonquine''.  Montréal: J. Chapleau & Fils.
*Nichols, John D. and Earl Nyholm. 1995. ''A Concise Dictionary of Minnesota Ojibwe''. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
*Rhodes, Richard A. 1985. ''Eastern Ojibwa-Chippewa-Ottawa Dictionary''. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.

[[Category:oj:Bird]]