== Dutch ==
===Variant spellings===
Z&#307;n using the ligature (unicode #307) instead of seperate letters)
===Pronunciation===
/zeIn/ 
===verb===
#to [[be]]
====Conjugation====
<table border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=2>
<tr><th>...tense<br>person...</th><th>Present <br>(onvoltooid tegenwoordige tijd)</th><th>Past <br>(onvoltooid verleden tijd)</th><th>Past participle<br> (voltooid deelwoord)</th></tr>
<tr><th colspan=4>singular</th></tr>
<tr><th>[[Ik]]</th><td>ben</td><td>was</td><td>geweest</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[Jij]] / [[U]]</th><td>bent (</td><td>was</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[Hij]] / [[zij]] / [[Men]]</th><td>is</td><td>was</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th colspan=4>plural</th></tr>
<tr><th>[[Wij]]</th><td>zijn</td><td>waren</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[Jullie]]</th><td>zijn</td><td>waren</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[Zij]]</th><td>zijn</td><td>waren</td><td>id.</td></tr>
</table>
:'''Usage examples'''
:* ''zijn of niet zijn, dat is de vraag'': to be or not to be, that is the question (the first line of Hamlet's monologue in Shakespeare's play.) 
==== Synonyms ====
# [[wezen]], [[bennen]].
#:'''Usage notes'''
#:* Most of these synonyms are archaic, very little used forms.
===Possesive Pronoun===
(contracted form: '''z'n''', /z@n/) 
#''(third person singular, masculine and neuter)'', [[his]], [[its]].
#:'''Usage notes'''
#:*About [[grammatical gender in Dutch]]: all [[diminuitive|diminuitives]] are automatically neuter; however, sex takes precedence in all the pronouns. Compare ''het kopje en zijn schotel'' (the (little) cup and '''its''' saucer) with ''het meisje en haar hoed'' (the (little) girl and '''her''' hat).
#:'''Examples'''
#:*''Een man en zijn hond'': a man and his dog; 
#:*''Een man en z'n hoed'': a man and his hat; 
#:*''Een boek en zijn kaft''; a book and its cover.