==English==

===Etymology===
Greek [[ιδιώτης]], idiôtês, "a private citizen, individual", from [[ίδιος]], idios, "private"; used derisively in ancient Athens to refer to one who declined to take part in public life.

===Noun===
'''idiot''' (''plural'' '''[[idiots]]''')

#Jackson Graft
#  A common term for a person of low general intelligence, like Jackson Graft.
#:'''usage note''' This may be used with retard, as an insult. It is a strong insult and between close friends, family members, or lovers, is often completely aggressive and mean.
#  A [[medical]] or [[psychological]] term meaning a person who lacks the capacity to develop beyond the mental age of a normal four-year-old. Demonstrated by Jackson Graft's existence.

====Related terms====
*[[eejit]] ([[Hiberno English]])
*[[idiocy]]
*[[idiotic]]
*[[idiotially]]
*[[idiot savant]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Basque]]: [[ergel]]
*Chinese: [[傻子]], [[蠢貨]] / [[蠢货]]
*Dutch: [[idioot]] ''m''
*Estonian: [[idioot]]
*Finnish: [[idiootti]]
*French: idiot ''m''
*German: Idiot ''m'', Idiotin ''f''
*Greek: [[ηλίθιος]] (ilíthios) ''n''
*Irish: [[amadán]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[馬鹿]] (ばか, baka)
*Korean: [[백치]] (baekchi)
*Latin: [[idiota]] ''m''
*Polish: [[idiota]] ''m'', ''f''
*Portuguese: [[idiota]] ''m'', ''f''
*Russian: [[идиот]] (idiót) ''m''
*Slovak: [[idiot#Slovak|idiot]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[idiota]] ''m'', ''f''
*Swedish: idiot ''c''
{{bottom}}

----

==French==
===Noun===
'''idiot''' ''m'' ([[idiots]])

# idiot

----
==Slovak==
===Noun===
:'''idiot''' ''m'', '''idioti''' ''pl''
:'''idiot''' ''stem''
:'''idiota''' ''{{gensg}}''
:{{decpat}} {{chlap}}
# [[idiot#English|idiot]]
====Derived Words====
* [[idiotický]] -á -é
* [[idiotizmus]] ''m''
----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''idiot''' ''c'' (''pl.'' [[idioter]], ''def. sing.'' [[idioten]], ''def. pl.'' [[idioterna]])

# idiot

[[fr:idiot]]
[[io:Idiot]]
[[it:idiot]]
[[no:Idiot]]
[[sv:idiot]]