==English==

{{webster}}

===Noun===
'''improvement'''  (''plural:'' '''[[improvements]])
# The act of [[improve|improving]]; [[advance]]ment or growth; [[promote|promotion]] in desirable qualities; progress toward what is better; melioration; as, the improvement of the mind, of land, roads, etc.
#:''"I look upon your city as the best place of '''improvement'''."''  -South.
#:''"Exercise is the chief source of '''improvement''' in all our faculties."''  -Blair.
# The act of making profitable use or applicaton of anything, or the state of being profitably employed; a turning to good account; practical application, as of a doctrine, principle, or theory, stated in a discourse.
#:''"A good '''improvement''' of his reason."''  -S. Clarke.
#:''"I shall make some '''improvement''' of this doctrine."''  -Tillotson.
# The state of being improved; betterment; advance; also, that which is improved; as, the new edition is an improvement on the old.
#:''"The parts of Sinon, Camilla, and some few others, are '''improvements''' on the Greek poet."''  -Addison.
# Increase; growth; progress; advance.
#:''"There is a design of publishing the history of architecture, with its several '''improvements''' and decays."''  -Addison.
#:''"Those vices which more particularly receive '''improvement''' by prosperity."''  -South.
# ''(plural):'' Valuable additions or betterments, as buildings, clearings, drains, fences, etc., on premises.
# ''(Patent Laws):'' A useful addition to, or modification of, a machine, manufacture, or composition.

[[it:improvement]]