==English==

===Etymology===
{{F.}} ''[[imputer]]'', {{L.}} ''[[imputare]]'' "to bring into the reckoning", "charge", "impute".

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:'' {{IPA|/ɪmˈpjuːt/}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|imput|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[reckon]] as [[pertain]]ing or [[attributable]]; to [[charge]]; to [[ascribe]]; to [[attribute]]; to set to the [[account]] of; to charge to one as the author, responsible originator, or possessor; -- generally in a bad sense.
#* Nor you, ye proud, impute to these the fault, If memory o'er their tomb no trophies raise. --Gray.
#* One vice of a darker shade was imputed to him - envy. --Macaulay.
# {{transitive}} {{theology}} To [[adjudge]] as one's own (the [[sin]] or [[righteousness]]) of another; as, the righteousness of Christ is imputed to us.
#* It was imputed to him for righteousness. --Rom. iv. 22.
# {{transitive}} To [[take account of]]; to [[consider]]; to [[regard]].
#* If we impute this last humiliation as the cause of his death. --Gibbon.
# {{transitive}} To [[attribute]] or [[credit]] to.
#: ''We imputed this quotation to Shakespeare.''
#: ''People impute great cleverness to cats.''
# {{transitive}} To [[attribute]] ([[responsibility]] or [[fault]]) to a [[cause]] or [[source]].
#: ''The teacher imputed the student's failure to his nervousness.''

====Synonyms====
*[[ascribe]], [[assign]], [[attribute]], [[charge]], [[reckon]], [[consider]], [[imply]], [[insinuate]]

====Related terms====
*[[imputability]]
*[[imputable]]
*[[imputableness]]
*[[imputably]]
*[[imputation]]

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[io:impute]]
[[it:impute]]
[[vi:impute]]
[[zh:impute]]