==English==

===Etymology===
From {{L.}} ''[[impugnare]]'', from ''[[in-]]'' + ''[[pugnare]]'' "to fight".

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-impugn.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{IPA|/ɪm'pju:n/}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{cattag|transitive|obsolete}} To [[assault]], [[attack]].
# {{transitive}} To verbally [[assault]], especially to argue against an opinion, motive, or action; to question the truth or validity of.

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1800s=1859 1864 1872 1889|
1900s=1922}}
*'''1859''' — [[w:John Stuart Mill|John Stuart Mill]], ''[[s:On Liberty|On Liberty]]''
*:Let the opinions '''impugned''' be the belief in a God and in a future state, or any of the commonly received doctrines of morality.
*'''1864''' — [[w:Abraham Lincoln|Abraham Lincoln]], ''[[s:Abraham Lincoln's Fourth State of the Union Address|Fourth State of the Union Address]]''
*:There have been much '''impugning''' of motives and much heated controversy as to the proper means and best mode of advancing the Union cause.
*'''1872''' — [[w:Benjamin Disraeli|Benjamin Disraeli]], ''[[s:Conservative Principles|Conservative Principles]]''
*:At home, at a period of immense prosperity, with a people contented and naturally loyal, we find to our surprise the most extravagant doctrines professed and the fundamental principles of our most valuable institutions '''impugned''', and that too by persons of some authority.
*'''1889''' — [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''[[s:A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court|A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court]]'', ch. xxv
*:It is a hardy question, fair sir and Boss, since it doth go far to '''impugn''' the wisdom of even our holy Mother Church herself.
*'''1922''' — [[w:Edgar Rice Burroughs|Edgar Rice Burroughs]], ''[[s:The Chessmen of Mars|The Chessmen of Mars]]'', ch. 21
*:He is not dead. When he revives he will return to his quarters with a fine tale of his bravery and there will be none to '''impugn''' his boasts.

====Synonyms====
(''question the validity of''): [[call in question]], [[challenge]], [[contest]], [[contradict]], [[deny]], [[disavow]], [[dispute]], [[negate]]

====Antonyms====
(''question the validity of''): [[authenticate]], [[endorse]], [[support]]

====Related terms====
*[[impugner]]

====Translations====
'''question the validity of'''
{{top}}
*French: [[contester]]
*German: [[angreifen]], [[in Zweifel ziehen]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[оспаривать]], [[подвергать]] [[сомнению]]
*Spanish: [[impugnar]]
{{bottom}}

[[zh:impugn]]