''See also: [[In]], [[-in]], [[-in-]]''
==English==

{{rank|of|and|to|5|in|I|that|was}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|/ĭn/}}
*{{IPA|/ɪn/}}
*{{SAMPA|/In/}}
*{{audio|en-us-in.ogg|Audio (US)}}

====Homophones====
*[[inn]]

===Noun===
'''in'''
#A [[position]] of [[power]] or a way to get it.
#:''His parents got him an '''in''' with the company''
#(''in games'') The state of a [[batter]]/[[batsman]] who is [[currently]] [[batting]]

===Preposition===
'''in'''

# Indicates containment.
#:''The dog is '''in''' the kennel.''
# Surrounded by.
#:''We are '''in''' the city walls.'', ''One '''in''' a million''
# Of that particular thing.
#:''He has passed '''in''' English.''

====Related terms====
*[[inner]]
*[[inside]]
*[[into]]
*[[within]]
*[[in it]]
*[[in love]]
*[[in trouble]]

====Translations====

'''in'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[në]]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[في]]}} (fi), {{ARchar|[[ب]]}} (bi-)
*Basque: [[-an]] ''([[locative]])''
*Bosnian: [[u#Bosnian|u]]
*Bulgarian: [[в]] (v)
*Croatian: [[u]]
*Czech: [[v]]
*Dutch: [[in#Dutch|in]]
*[[Dyirbal]]: {{Unicode|[[-ŋga]] / [[-ga]] / [[-ɽa]]}} ''([[locative]])''
*Esperanto: [[en]]
*Finnish: [[-ssa]] / [[-ssä]] ''([[inessive]])''
*French: [[dans]]
*German: [[in#German|in]]
*Greek, Ancient: {{Unicode|[[εἰς]]}} (eis)
*[[Modern Greek|Greek, Modern]]: σε (se)
*Hawaiian: [[i#Hawaiian|i]], [[iā]]; [[ma#Hawaiian|ma]]
*Hebrew: [[...ב]] (be...)
*Hindi: [[अन्दर]] (andar), [[में]] (me.n), [[भीतर]] (bhītar)
*Hungarian: [[-ban]] / [[-ben]] ''([[inessive]])''
*Icelandic: [[í]], [[inni]]
*[[Ido]]: [[en]]
*Indonesian: [[di]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[in#Interlingua|in]]
*Irish: [[i#Irish|i]]
*Italian: [[in#Italian|in]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[に]] (ni), [[中に|の中に]] ([[のなかに]], no náka ni), [[で]] (de)
*Korean: [[...의 안에]] (...ui ane)
*Latin: [[in#Latin|in]]
*Norwegian: [[av]]
*[[Novial]]: [[in]]
*[[Pashto]]: {{FAchar|[[په]]}} (pe)
*Polish: [[w]]
*Portuguese: [[em]]
*[[Quechua]]: [[-pi]] ''([[locative]])''
*Romanian: [[în]]
*Russian: [[в#Russian|в]] (v)
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[у#Serbian|у]]
*:Latin: [[u#Serbian|u]]
*Slovenian: [[v#Slovenian|v]]
*Spanish: [[en]]
*Swahili: [[m-]] / [[mu-]] ''(noun class 18)''
*Swedish: [[inne]]; [[i#Swedish|i]], [[på]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[sa]], [[nasa]]
*Tajik: [[дар]] (dar)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[ใน]]}} 
*Turkish: [[-da]] / [[-de]] ''([[locative]])''
*Vietnamese: [[ở]]
*Yiddish: [[אן]] (in)
*[[Yoruba]]: [[ní]]
*[[Yup'ik]]: [[-mi]] ''sg'', [[-gni]] ''dual'', [[-ni]] {{p}} ''([[localis case]])''
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
''in''
# Located indoors, especially: at home or the office and available for conversation
#:''Is Mr. Smith '''in'''?''
# Moving to the interior of a defined space such as a building or room
#:''Suddenly a strange man walked '''in'''.''
# {{sports}} Still able to play, e.g. able to bat in cricket and baseball.
#:''He went for the wild toss but wasn't able to stay '''in'''.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[herein]], [[hinein]] (2)
*Greek : [[μέσα]] (mesa)
*Hindi: [[भीतर]] (bhītar)
*Irish: [[isteach]] (2)
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: [[inu]]
{{bottom}}

====Antonyms====
*[[out]]


----

==Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
/In/ 
===Preposition===
'''in'''
# expressing containment.
#:''De geest '''in''' de fles'': the genie in the bottle.

----

==Interlingua==
===Preposition===
'''in'''

==Italian==
===Preposition===
'''in'''
#in
#[[to]]
#[[into]]
#[[by]]

===Usage notes===
''When followed by a definite article'', '''in''' ''is combined with the article to give the following combined forms'':
<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="5">
<tr><th>In + article<th>Combined form</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[il#Italian|il]]<td align="center">[[nel]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[lo#Italian|lo]]<td align="center">[[nello]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[l'#Italian|l']]<td align="center">[[nell']]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[i#Italian|i]]<td align="center">[[nei]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[gli]]<td align="center">[[negli]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[la#Italian|la]]<td align="center">[[nella]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">in + [[le#Italian|le]]<td align="center">[[nelle]]</tr>
</table>


----

==Latin==
===Preposition===
'''in'''
#(''with ablative'') in, at, on
#(''with accusative'') into
{{seeCites}}


----
==Swedish==
===Preposition===
'''in'''
#[[into]], the direction "from ''out'' to ''in''"
====Antonym====
*[[ut]]
===See also===
*[[inne]]


----
==[[Volapük]]==
===Preposition===
'''in'''
# in

[[Category:English prepositions]]
[[Category:German prepositions]]
[[Category:Latin prepositions]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English homophones]]

[[de:in]]
[[et:in]]
[[fr:in]]
[[ie:in]]
[[it:in]]
[[ku:in]]
[[la:in]]
[[nl:in]]
[[ja:in]]
[[no:in]]
[[pl:in]]
[[pt:in]]
[[ru:in]]
[[fi:in]]
[[sv:in]]
[[ta:in]]
[[vi:in]]
[[zh:in]]