==[[English]]==

==Etymology==
Philologists since 1782 when [[William Jones]] observed the strong affinity of Sanskrit, Greek and Latin have studied the similarities of the languages of Western Eurasia. The term itself "Indo-European" was coined in 1813 by [[Sir Thomas Young]]. With the progress of comparative linguistics in the late and early 19th and 20th centuries, the term began to be used more loosely to refer to more historical/anthropological contexts.  


===[[Noun]]===
#A language family which includes many of the languages between Europe and India, whose notable members are Sanskrit, Latin, Ancient Persian,proto Germanic languages and their decendents.
#The hypothetical parent language of the Indo-European language family.  Also called ''[[Proto-Indo-European]]'' and abbreviated ''[[PIE]]''.
#A member of the nomadic groups which are thought to have spoken PIE or a related tongue and spread all throughout Western Eurasia. The existence of this group, who are also referred to as the [[Aryans]] is a disputed topic among paleo-linguists, historians and anthropologists.


For more see (Wikipedia: [[w:Indo-European languages|Indo-European languages]])

===[[Adjective]]===
#Of or relating to the languages originally spoken in Europe and Western Asia.
#Of or relating to the hypothetical parent language of the Indo-European language family.  Also called ''[[Proto-Indo-European]]'' and abbreviated ''[[PIE]]''.
#Of or relating to the Aryans or other proposed groups of nomadic peoples thought to have spread Indo-European tongues.

===Related Items===
[[Indo European Dictionary]] : [[http://www.geocities.com/protoillyrian]]