==English==
===Etymology===
From Middle English < Medieval Latin '''[[instrumentalis]]''' < '''[[instruere]]''' ("to build into, set up, construct, furnish," hence "to train") < '''[[in-]]''' ("on") + '''[[struere]]''' ("to put together, arrange, pile up, build, construct") < Proto-Indo-European '''[[Wiktionary Appendix:Proto-Indo-European roots|*streu-]]''' ("to spread, extend, stretch out").

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-instrumental.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
'''instrumental'''
#Acting as an [[instrument]]; serving as a means; contributing to [[promote]]; [[conductive]]; [[helpful]]; serviceable; [[essential]] or [[central]].
#:''He was '''instrumental''' in conducting the business.''
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The head is not more native to the heart, The hand more '''instrumental''' to the mouth &mdash; Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, I,ii''
#{{Music}}: Pertaining to, made by, or prepared for, an instrument, especially a musical instrument; as, '''instrumental''' music, distinguished from '''vocal''' music.  
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He defended the use of '''instrumental''' music in public worship. &mdash; [[Macaulay]]
#:*Sweet voices mix'd with '''instrumental''' sounds. &mdash; [[Dryden]]
#{{Grammar}}: Applied to a [[case]] expressing [[means]] or [[agency]]—and is generally indicated in English by '''by''' or '''with''' with the objective; as, the '''instrumental''' case. This is found in [[Sanskrit]] as a separate case, but in [[Greek]] it was merged into the [[dative]], and in [[Latin]] into the [[ablative]]. In Old English it was a separate case, but has disappeared, leaving only a few anomalous forms. It continues to be used in [[Slavic]] languages.

===Derived expressions===
*'''Instrumental errors''', those errors in instrumental measurements, etc., which arise, exclusively from want of mathematical accuracy in an instrument.

===Noun===
'''instrumental'''
#{{Grammar}} The [[instrumental case]].
#{{Music}} A [[composition]] without [[lyrics]].

====Translations====
'''Grammar'''
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48% |
{|
*Bulgarian: [[творителен падеж]] (tvorítelen padéž) ''m''
*Czech: [[sedmý pád]] ''m''
*French: instrumental ''m''
*German: [[Instrumental-Kasus]] ''m''
*Turkish: [[Enstrümental]] ''m''
*Hungarian: [[eszközhatározó eset]] (using [[-vel|-val or -vel]] endings)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48% |
{|
*Japanese: [[造格]] ([[ぞうかく]], zoukakú), [[具格]] ([[ぐかく]], gukakú)
*Russian: [[творительный падеж]] (tvorítel'nyj padéž) ''m''
*[[Slovak]]: [[siedmy pád]] ''m'', [[inštrumentál]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[caso instrumental]] ''m''
|}
|}
'''Music'''
[[Category:English adjectives]]

[[da:instrumental]]
[[fr:instrumental]]
[[pl:instrumental]]