{{see|inversión}}

==English==

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)ʒən|-ɜː(r)ʒən]]

===Noun===
'''inversion'''
# {{music}} The move of one [[pitch]] in an interval or [[chord]] up or down an [[octave]]
# {{music}} The reversal of an [[interval]]
# {{music}} The reversal of the [[pitch contour]]
# {{music}} The reversal of a [[pitch class]] [[succesion]] such as a [[melody]] or [[counterpoint|contrapuntal line]]
# {{music}} Subtraction of pitch classes in a set from twelve which maps intervals onto their [[complement]]s with respect to 0 and preserves [[interval class]]es, symbolized IX where X is the transposition which is inverted (DeLone et. al. (Eds.), 1975, chap. 6).
# {{genetics}} a segment of [[DNA]] in the context of a [[chromosome]] that is reversed in orientation relative to a reference [[karyotype]] or [[genome]]
# ([[Weather]]). An increase of air temperature with increase in altitude (the ground being colder than the surrounding air). When an inversion exists, there are no [[convection currents]] and [[wind speeds]] are below 5 [[knots]]. The [[atmosphere]] is [[stable]] and normally is considered the most favorable state for ground release of chemical agents.

====Related terms====
*[[twelve tone technique]]
*[[serialism]]

====Derived terms====
*[[pericentric inversion]]
*[[paracentric inversion]]

====References====
* {{music}} DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465, Ch. 6.
* {{genetics}} Lars Feuk, Andrew R. Carson and Stephen W. Scherer (February 2006). "[http://www.nature.com/nrg/journal/v7/n2/abs/nrg1767.html Structural variation in the human genome]," Nature, 7:85.

[[et:inversion]]
[[fr:inversion]]
[[hu:inversion]]
[[pl:inversion]]
[[vi:inversion]]
[[zh:inversion]]