==English==

===Etymology===
{{L.}} ''involvere, involutum'', to roll about, wrap up; prefix [[in-]] in + ''volvere'' to roll

===Verb===
{{en-verb|involv|ing}}

# To roll or fold up; to wind round; to entwine.
# To envelop completely; to surround; to cover; to hide; to involve in darkness or obscurity.
# To complicate or make intricate, as in grammatical structure.
# To connect with something as a natural or logical consequence or effect; to include necessarily; to imply.
# To take in; to gather in; to mingle confusedly; to blend or merge.
# To envelop, infold, entangle, or embarrass; as, to involve a person in debt or misery.
# To engage thoroughly; to occupy, employ, or absorb.
# ''(Mathematics):'' To raise to any assigned power; to multiply, as a quantity, into itself a given number of times; as, a quantity involved to the third or fourth power.
# Status: involved

===Synonyms===
*to [[imply]]
*[[include]]
*[[implicate]]
*[[complicate]]
*[[entangle]]
*[[embarrass]]
*[[overwhelm]]

===See also===
*[[involver]]
*[[voluble]]
*[[involute]]

===Translations===
'''to roll'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To envelop completely'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[envolver]]
{{bottom}}

'''To complicate or make intricate'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To connect with something'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To take in'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To envelop, infold, entangle, or embarrass'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[envolver]]
{{bottom}}

'''To engage thoroughly'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[envolver]]
{{bottom}}

'''(Mathematics): To raise to any assigned power'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[elevar]]
{{bottom}}

===References===
*{{R:1913}}

[[fr:involve]]
[[zh:involve]]