{{rfd}}

'''Internet Protocol version 6''' ('''IPv6''') is a [[network layer]] standard used by electronic devices to exchange data across a [[packet]]-switched [[internetwork]]. It follows [[IPv4]] as the second version of the [[Internet Protocol]] to be formally adopted for general use. 

IPv6 is intended to provide more addresses for networked devices, allowing, for example, each cell phone and mobile electronic device to have its own address. IPv4 supports 4.3×10<sup>9</sup> (4.3 billion) addresses, which is inadequate to give one (or more if they possess more than one device) to every living person. IPv6 supports 3.4×10<sup>38</sup> addresses, or 5×10<sup>28</sup>(50 [[octillion]]) for each of the roughly 6.5 billion people alive today. 

Invented by [[Steve Deering]] and [[Craig Mudge]] at [[Xerox PARC]], IPv6 was adopted by the [[Internet Engineering Task Force]] in [[1994]], when it was called "IP Next Generation" (IPng). (Incidentally, [[IPv5]] was not a successor to IPv4, but an experimental flow-oriented [[streaming media|streaming]] protocol intended to support video and audio.)

As of December 2005, IPv6 accounts for a tiny percentage of the live addresses in the publicly-accessible Internet, which is still dominated by IPv4. The adoption of IPv6 has been slowed by the introduction of [[network address translation]] (NAT), which partially alleviates address exhaustion. The [[Federal government of the United States|U.S. Government]] has specified that all federal agencies must deploy IPv6 by [[2008]].

It is expected that IPv4 will be supported alongside IPv6 for the foreseeable future.