{{see|Iris}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From Middle English < Latin < Greek {{Unicode|[[ίρις]]}} ('rainbow').

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|ī'rĭs}}, {{IPA|/aɪrɪs/}}, {{SAMPA|/aIrIs/}}

===Noun===
[[Category:English irregular plurals]]
{{en-noun|es|pl2=iris|pl3=irides}}

# {{countable}} {{botany}} A [[plant]] of the genus ''Iris'', common in the northern hemisphere, and generally having attractive blooms.
# ''(poetic)'' A [[rainbow]], or other colourful refraction of light.
# {{countable}} {{anatomy}} The [[contractile]] [[membrane]] [[perforate]]d by the [[pupil]], which adjusts to control the amount of light reaching the [[retina]], and which forms the colored portion of the [[eye]].
# {{countable}} (''Photography, Cinematography'') A [[diaphragm]] used to regulate the size of a hole, especially as a way of controlling the amount of [[light]] reaching a [[lens]].

===Translations===
'''part of the eye'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kehäkalvo]]
*French: [[iris#French|iris]] {{m}}
*German: [[Iris]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[ίρις]] (íris) {{f}}
*Korean: [[홍채]] (hongchae)
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[íris]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[радужная оболочка]] (rádužnaja obolóčka) {{f}}, [[ирис]] (íris) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[iris#Spanish|iris]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''plant'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[鳶尾花]](yuān weĭ huā)
*Finnish: [[kurjenmiekka]]
*French: iris {{m}}
*German: [[Iris]] {{f}}, [[Schwertlilie]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[あやめ]] (ayamé), [[菖蒲]] (しょうぶ, shōbu)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[븟꽃]] (peutggot), [[창포]] (changpo)
*Portuguese: [[íris]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[ирис]] (íris) {{m}}, [[касатик]] (kasátik) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[lirio]] {{m}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[కంటిపాప]] (kaMTipaapa)
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[iridal]]
*[[iridial]]
*[[iridian]]
*[[iritis]]
*[[iridocyclitis]]
*[[iridology]]

====Usage notes====
For the part of the eye, the usual medical plural is ''irides.''  For the flower both ''iris'' and ''irises'' are in common use.

====Quotations====
''plural '''iris'''''
{{timeline|
1900s=1989<br>1996|
2000s=2004}}
* '''1989,''' Ann Lovejoy, ''The Year in Bloom'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=B2WnTx8ZSXoC&pg=PA107&lpg=PA107&sig=kTR265orMNqHigdpkspkvz5gF8c]
*: Is there anything more spectacular than the bearded '''iris''' in their short season?
* '''1996,''' Katherine Grace Endicott, ''Northern California Gardening'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=2Orl1AcbaT4C&pg=PA138&lpg=PA138&sig=sRNZY7Jc53QpEqCrkaHoFKHx7_g] 
*: Tall bearded '''iris''' are in bloom now.
* '''2004,''' Diana Beresford-Kroeger, ''A Garden for Life'' [http://print.google.com/print?id=0sPBOVSC2MUC&pg=PA84&lpg=PA84&sig=bEEefwPluRvCp36e6pF5AkExCKk]
*: The bulbous '''iris''' are important because their early flowers provide a food source for bees and early flying insects.

''plural '''irides'''''
{{timeline|
1800s=1843|
1900s=1989|
2000s=2001}}

* '''1843,''' ''The Penny Cyclopaedia of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge''
*: In colour the '''irides''' are straw-yellow, the pupils black; forehead, nape, and back, very dark bluish-black; [...]
* '''1989,''' Robert S Ridgely, ''The Birds of South America'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=tRBb15pk4w0C&pg=RA1-PA374&lpg=RA1-PA374&sig=PZFkFg4LIlBDqSgZ7Z7DnYYha6M]
*: As in the caciques, bills are sharply pointed and pale, while '''irides''' are usually pale blue.
* '''2001,''' John V Forrester et al., ''The Eye'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=CTltcMRq8_QC&pg=PA121&lpg=PA121&sig=oUK2_xiWqgcZ-USI7UBo0HxuBy4]
*: Later in life brown '''irides''' are the result of heavily pigmented melanocytes within the stroma.

''plural '''irises'''''
{{timeline|
1900s=1987<br>2000|
2000s=2002}}
* '''1987,''' Pamela Harper, Frederick McGourty, ''Perennials'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=Mi5_h7ryCi0C&pg=PA109&lpg=PA109&sig=8_7tj1vGAjqwhPowAsYKQyL0QE8]
*: Tall bearded '''irises''' are easy to grow but not always easy to grow well.
* '''2000,''' Kevin C Voughn, ''Louisiana Iris'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=4-T1HH-X1_sC&pg=PA44&lpg=PA44&sig=D957MQkQUZqTgY7ex8mGf0R6Wa4]
*: Most iris lovers feel that Louisiana '''irises''' are now large enough.
* '''2002,''' John E Bryan, ''Bulbs'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=v-h4dovkqxgC&pg=PA296&lpg=PA296&sig=Oj6ubuGG706mBqxu_tKlzU90Q-0]
*: All these '''irises''' are sold as dry, dormant bulbs in fall.

===See also===
*[[w:Iris (plant)|Wikipedia article on the plant]]
*[[w:Iris (anatomy)|Wikipedia article on the part of the eye]]

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

----

==Indonesian==

===Noun===
'''iris'''

# [[slice]]

===Verb===
'''mengiris'''

# to [[slice]]

[[Category:Indonesian nouns]]

[[fr:iris]]
[[io:iris]]
[[it:iris]]
[[la:iris]]
[[hu:iris]]
[[pl:iris]]
[[sl:iris]]
[[fi:iris]]
[[vi:iris]]
[[zh:iris]]