==English==

===Etymology===
Probably a [[blend]] of '''[[irrespective]]''' and '''[[regardless]]'''
[[Category:Portmanteaus]]

===Adjective===
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-adj|-}}

#(''mainly US, non-standard or jocular'') [[regardless|Regardless]].
#*'''1997''' January 15, Faculty Senate Regular Meeting, Central Washington University [http://www.cwu.edu/~fsenate/min/0115min.htm]
#*:All costs for snow removal may come from the University's budget '''irregardless''' of any emergency declarations
#*'''1999''' March 3, Minutes, Faculty Senate Meeting, University of Texas at Arlington [http://www.uta.edu/senate/minutes/mar1999.html]
#*:"Now," continued Chair Ellwood, "This is '''irregardless''' of what it says in the HOP?"
#*'''2000''', Mary Palevsky, ''Atomic Fragments'', page 56, University of California
#*:At one point during the interview, I began to use the word '''''irregardless''''', something I never do.  When I told Teller of my imminent faux pas he laughed and replied, “Irregardless.  Irregardless sounds to me a little more Hungarian!”
#*'''2003''' May 7, Minutes of the Council Meeting, Post-graduate Students' Society of McGill University
#*:On a point of debate, R. Geddy spoke against the motion arguing that any letter drafted be sent '''irregardless''' of the results of the General Assembly vote.
#*'''2003''', Julio Vasquez, ''Death at Disney'', page 70, Lulu Press
#*:“If anything, he probably has the least reason to care about what goes on with the stunt show as he’ll stay working '''irregardless'''.”
#*:“Irregardless,<!--sic--> isn't a word. The word is regardless,” I correct her.
#*'''2004''' July 7, John Harris of the Department of Toxic Substance Control, Restoration Advisory Board Meeting Minutes, Sierra Army Depot [http://www.sierra.army.mil/restoration/documents/7july04minutes.pdf]
#*:We need to see the completion report and sign off on it, that the property actually has been cleared sufficiently before the property can be transferred. All that has to be done '''irregardless''' of the date.
#*'''2005''' October 13, Meeting Minutes, State Consumer and Family Advisory Committee, North Carolina
#*:Discussion included the SCFAC budget and the fact that the State cannot change the amount of mileage reimbursement pertaining to transportation costs '''irregardless''' of the increase in gasoline prices.

====Usage notes====
*Although well attested, this term is generally seen as non-standard and may be taken as a mistake for [[regardless]] or [[irrespective]].  Consequently it may not be appropriate in formal contexts.

====Synonyms====
*(''regardless''): [[irrespective]], [[regardless]]

===Dictionary notes===
* First acknowledged by the ''[[w:Wentworth American Dialect Dictionary|Wentworth American Dialect Dictionary]]'' (1912) as originating in western Indiana
* ''[[w:Webster's New International Dictionary|Webster’s New International Dictionary]], Second Edition'' (1934) labels '''irregardless''' as erroneous or humorous.
* The ''[[w:Shorter Oxford English Dictionary|Shorter Oxford English Dictionary]]'' labels '''irregardless''' as ‘chiefly ''N. Amer.'' (''non-standard'' or ''joc.'')’.
* This term is notably omitted from the ''[[w:Etymological Dictionary of the English Language|Etymological Dictionary of the English Language]]'' (1910), ''[[w:Fowler's Modern English Usage|Fowler’s Modern English Usage]]'' (1965){{,}} and ''Roget’s 21st Century Thesaurus'' (1992)

[[Category:Disputed usage]]