{{wikify}}
n. 

The act or an instance of flowing, passing, or giving out. 
The act of circulating, distributing, or publishing by an office or official group: government issue of new bonds. 
Something produced, published, or offered, as:
An item or set of items, as stamps or coins, made available at one time by an office or bureau. 
A single copy of a periodical: the May issue of the magazine. 
A distinct set of copies of an edition of a book distinguished from others of that edition by variations in the printed matter. 
A final result or conclusion, as a solution to a problem. 
Proceeds from estates or fines. 
Something proceeding from a specified source: suspicions that were the issue of a deranged mind. 
Offspring; progeny: died without issue. 

A point or matter of discussion, debate, or dispute: legal and moral issues. 
A matter of public concern: debated economic issues. 
A misgiving, objection, or complaint: had issues with the plan to change the curriculum. 
The essential point; crux: the issue of how to provide adequate child care. 
A culminating point leading to a decision: bring a case to an issue. 
Informal. A personal problem or emotional disorder: The teacher discussed the child's issues with his parents. 
A place of egress; an outlet: a lake with no issue to the sea. 
Pathology. 
A discharge, as of blood or pus. 
A lesion, wound, or ulcer producing such a discharge. 
Archaic. Termination; close. 

v. is·sued, is·su·ing, is·sues 
v. intr.
To go or come out. See Synonyms at appear. 
To accrue as proceeds or profit: Little money issued from the stocks. 
To be born or be descended. 
To be circulated or published. 
To spring or proceed from a source. See Synonyms at stem1. 
To terminate or result. 

v. tr.
To cause to flow out; emit. 
To circulate or distribute in an official capacity: issued uniforms to the players. 
To publish: issued periodic statements. 

Idioms:
at issue
In question; in dispute: “Many people fail to grasp what is really at issue here” (Gail Sheehy). 
At variance; in disagreement. 
join issue
To enter into controversy. 
Law To submit an issue for decision. 
take issue
To take an opposing point of view; disagree.