{{see|IT}}
==English==

{{rank      |his|with|is  |13|it|for|as|had}}

===Etymology===
Old English [[hit#Old English|hit]].

===Pronunciation===
*(''Stressed''): ĭt, /ɪt/ ,/It/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪt|Rhymes: -ɪt]]
*(''Unstressed''): ət, /ət/, /@t/
*:'''Homophones''': [[at]] (''Unstressed'')

===Personal pronoun===
Third person singular, neuter, nominative or accusative case.
(''Reflexive'': [[itself]], ''possessive adjective and noun'': [[its]].)

# The inanimate thing, with no particular sex or gender; the thing already referred to or easily identified.
#:''Put '''it''' over there.''
#:''Take each day as '''it''' comes.''
# One’s circumstances, the time, the weather, etc. (the subject of an impersonal verb or statement).
#:'' '''It''' is nearly 10 o’clock.''
#:'' '''It'''’s very cold today.''
# ''(Idiomatic)'' (The indefinite object of a transitive verb.)
#:''Move '''it''', would you?  I’m in a hurry.''
#:''Hey, watch '''it''', you!''


:''See'' [[Wiktionary:Inflection Templates]] for other personal pronouns.

====Translations====
=====Inanimate thing (Subject)=====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[ai]], [[ajo]]
*Bulgarian: [[той]] / [[тя]] / [[то]] (toj/tja/to) ''m/f/n''
*Chinese: [[这]], [[那]] (nà, nèi), [[它]] (tā)
*Croatian: [[ono]]
*Dutch: [[het]]
*Esperanto: [[ĝi]]
*Finnish: [[se]]
*French: [[ce]], [[il]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[it#Frisian|it]]
*Georgian: [[ის]] (is)
*German: [[es]]
*Greek: [[το]], [[αυτό]] (sometimes not translated)
*Hungarian: [[az]]
*Italian: [[esso]] / [[essa]] / [[lo]] / [[la]]
*Irish: [[sé]] ''m conjunctive'' / [[é]] ''m disjunctive'' / [[sí]] ''f conjunctive'' / [[í]] ''f disjunctive''
*Japanese: [[それ]] (soré)
*Latin: [[id]]
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: [[lu]], [[lum]]
*Old English: [[hit#Old English|hit]], [[þæt]]
*[[Persian]]: {{FAchar|[[او]]}} (u)
*Portuguese: [[ele]] / [[ela]] / [[o]] / [[a]]
*Russian: [[он]] / [[она]] / [[оно]] (on/oná/onó) ''m/f/n''; [[это]] (éto)
*Sardinian: [[issu]]
*Scottish Gaelic: [[e]] ''m non-emphatic'', [[esan]] ''m emphatic'', [[i]] ''f non-emphatic'', [[ise]] ''f emphatic''
*[[Sicilian]]: [[issu]]
*Slovak: [[ono]]
*Spanish: [[le]] / [[la]] / [[lo]] ''m/f/n'', [[ello]], [[eso]]
*Swedish: [[den]] {{c}}, [[det]] {{n}}
*Thai: {{THchar|[[มัน]]}} (man)
{{bottom}}

=====Inanimate thing (Object)=====
*Bulgarian: [[него]] / [[го]] (nego/go) ''(m, n [[accusative case]])''; [[на него]] / [[нему]] / [[му]] (na nego/nemu/mu) ''(m,n [[dative case]])''; [[нея]] / [[я]] (neja/ja) ''(f [[accusative case]])''; [[на нея]] / [[ней]] / [[ѝ]] (na neja/nej/i) ''(f [[dative case]])''
*Chinese: [[这]], [[那]] (nà, nèi), [[它]] (tā), [[之]] (zhī)
*Dutch: [[het]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ĝin]]
*Finnish: [[se]], [[sen]]
*French: [[le]]
*Greek: [[το]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[it#Frisian|it]]
*German: [[es]]
*Hungarian: [[az]]
*Irish: [[é]] {{m}} / [[í]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[それ]] (soré)
*Latin: [[id]]
*[[Novial]]: [[lu]], [[lum]]
*Old English: [[hit#Old English|hit]], [[þæt]]
*[[Persian]]: [[او را]] (u rā)
*Russian: [[его]] (jevó, ''m,n [[genitive case]]''), [[ему]] (jemú, ''m,n [[dative case]]''), [[его]] (jevó, ''m,n [[accusative case]]''), [[им]] (im, ''m,n [[instrumental case]]''), [[нём]] (njom, ''m,n [[prepositional case]]'');
:[[её]] (jejó, ''f [[genitive case]]''), [[ей]] (jej, ''f [[dative case]]''), [[её]] (jejó, ''f [[accusative case]]''), [[ею]] / [[ей]] (jéju/jej, ''f [[instrumental case]]''), [[ней]] (njej, ''f [[prepositional case]]'') 
*Spanish: [[ello]], [[él]], [[ella]], [[eso]], (often not translated)
*Swedish: [[den]] {{c}}, [[det]] {{n}}
*Thai: {{THchar|[[มัน]]}} (man)

=====Subject of impersonal statement=====
*German: [[es#German|es]]
*[[Novial]]: ''(not used)''
*Portuguese: ''(not used)''
*Spanish: ''(not used)''

=====Indefinite object of transitive verb=====

=====See also=====
*[[her]]
*[[him]]
*[[them]]
*[[us]]
*[[you]]
*[[he]]
*[[I]]
*[[she]]
*[[they]]
*[[we]]
*[[you]]

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''It''' ''or'' '''It.''' or '''it'''

# [[Italian]] (''language'')
# Italy.

====See also====
*[[IT]]


----

==Frisian==
===Article===
'''it''' {{n}}

# [[the]] (the definite article that is placed before neuter nouns. Masculine and feminine nouns take the article ''[[de]]'').

===Personal pronoun===
'''it'''

# it: the third person singular, referring to something neutral, genderless.


----

==Turkish==
===Noun===
'''it'''

# [[dog]]

===Verb form===
'''it'''

# [[push]] ''(imperative)''

[[Category:English third person pronouns]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:Frisian language]]
[[Category:Turkish nouns]]
[[Category:Turkish verb forms]]

{{rfc}}

[[es:it]]
[[fr:it]]
[[gl:it]]
[[io:it]]
[[it:it]]
[[la:it]]
[[hu:it]]
[[ja:it]]
[[pl:it]]
[[pt:it]]
[[ru:it]]
[[fi:it]]
[[uk:it]]
[[zh:it]]