==Bulgarian==
[[Category:bg:Vulgarities]]
===Noun===
'''хуй''' (khuj) {{m}}

# (''taboo slang'') [[dick]], [[prick]], [[cock]].


----
==Russian==
[[Category:ru:Vulgarities]]

===Noun===
'''хуй''' (khuj) {{m}}, хуи (khuí) {{p}}

# (''taboo slang'') [[dick]], [[prick]] (''meaning a [[penis]] or a highly contemptible male person'').
#: {{RUchar|[[если|Е́сли]] [[б#Russian|бы]] [[у#Russian|у]] [[бабушка|ба́бушки]] [[быть|был]] хуй, [[то]] [[она|она́]] [[быть|была́]] бы [[дедушка|де́душкой]].}} —&nbsp;''If only grandma had a dick, she would have been a grandpa.'' (Russian proverb, may be used as a response to, e.g., “If I had only purchased that lottery ticket, I would have been a rich man.”)
#: {{RUchar|[[передавать|Переда́й]] [[этот|э́тому]] хую́, [[чтобы|что́бы]] [[возвращать|верну́л]] [[мне]] [[червонец|черво́нец]]!}} —&nbsp;''Tell this dickhead to pay me back the ten roubles!''

===Idioms===
* {{RUchar|'''ни хуя́'''}} —&nbsp;not a thing; you are wrong
:: {{RUchar|[[за|За]] [[целый|це́лый]] [[день]] [[ты]] ни хуя́ [[не#Russian|не]] [[делать|сде́лал]]?!}} —&nbsp;''You haven’t done a fucking thing the whole day?''
:: {{RUchar|Ни хуя́! [[я#Russian|Я]] [[это|э́того]] [[не#Russian|не]] [[говорить|говори́л]]!}} —&nbsp;''Bullshit! I never said that!''

* {{RUchar|'''до хуя́'''}} —&nbsp;plenty of
:: {{RUchar|[[у#Russian|У]] [[него|него́]] [[компакт-диск|компа́кт-ди́сков]]&nbsp;—&nbsp;до хуя́.}} —&nbsp;''He’s got a wagonload of CD’s.''

* {{RUchar|'''хуй тебе́'''}} —&nbsp;I won’t do what you ask
:: {{RUchar|[[одалживать|Одолжи́]] [[червонец|черво́нец]]. —&nbsp;Хуй [[ты|тебе́]]!  [[сначала|Снача́ла]] [[возвращать|верни́]] [[я#Russian|мне]] [[трёшка|трёшку]].}} —&nbsp;''Will you lend me ten roubles? —&nbsp;The hell I will! First pay me back the three roubles.''

* {{RUchar|'''иди́ на́ хуй'''}} —&nbsp;[[fuck off]]
:: {{RUchar|[[идти|Иди́]] [[ты]] на́ хуй [[со]] [[свой|свои́ми]] [[совет|сове́тами]]!}} —&nbsp;''Fuck you and your advice!''

* ''dat. pron.'' + {{RUchar|'''по́ хую'''}} —&nbsp;(I/he/she) don’t/doesn’t care
:: {{RUchar|[[я#Russian|Мне]] по́ хую [[что|что́]] [[он]] [[говорить|сказа́л]].}} —&nbsp;''I don’t fucking care what he said.''

===Declension===
{| border="1" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0"
!
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"|[[singular]]
! style="background-color: #EFEFFF" align="center"|[[plural]]
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[nominative case|nominative]]
| align="center"|{{RUchar|хуй}}
| align="center"|{{RUchar|хуи́}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[genitive case|genitive]]
| align="center"|{{RUchar|ху́я,}}<br>{{RUchar|хуя́}}<br>(''see [[#Usage|Usage]]'')
| align="center"|{{RUchar|хуёв}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[dative case|dative]]
| align="center"|{{RUchar|ху́ю,}}<br>{{RUchar|хую́}}
| align="center"|{{RUchar|ху́ям,}}<br>{{RUchar|хуя́м}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[accusative case|accusative]]
| align="center"|{{RUchar|хуй}}
| align="center"|{{RUchar|хуи́}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[instrumental case|instrumental]]
| align="center"|{{RUchar|ху́ем,}}<br>{{RUchar|хуём}}
| align="center"|{{RUchar|хуя́ми}}
|-
! style="background-color: #FFFFE0" align="left"|[[prepositional case|prepositional]]
| align="center"|{{RUchar|о ху́е}}
| align="center"|{{RUchar|о хуя́х}}
|}

===Usage===
There are two variations on the stressed syllable in the genitive case. Generally, they are interchangeable. However, when used in the expressions {{RUchar|[[#Idioms|ни хуя́]]}} (ni khujá) and {{RUchar|[[#Idioms|до хуя́]]}} (do khujá), the last syllable should be stressed.

In the expressions {{RUchar|[[#Idioms|на́ хуй]]}} (ná khuj) and {{RUchar|[[#Idioms|по́ хую]]}} (pó khuju), the prepositions should be stressed.

===Derived terms===
*[[хуйня]]
*[[хуёвый]]
*[[охуеть]]
*[[охуевший]]

===Synonyms===
*[[хер]]


----
==Ukrainian==
[[Category:uk:Vulgarities]]
===Noun===
'''хуй''' (khuj) {{m}}

# (''taboo slang'') [[dick]], [[prick]], [[cock]].

[[nl:хуй]]
[[ru:хуй]]