{{wikipedia}}
{{wikipedia|sable (heraldry)}}
==English==

===Alternative forms===
:'''sa.''' or '''s.''' in [[heraldic]] contexts.
===Etymology===
From [[Old French]] ''martre sable'' "sable [[marten]]", an animal (see below). Possibly from an Old Slavonic word; compare with Russian ''[[соболь]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈseɪbəl/}}

===Noun===
'''sable''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]; plural'' '''sables''')

#A small [[mammal]], related to the [[marten]].  Taxonomic name: ''Martes zibellina''.
#A [[coat]] made from the [[fur]] of the sable.
#An artist's [[brush]] made from the [[fur]] of the sable.
#{{tincture}}: A [[black]] [[colour]] on a [[coat of arms]].
#(''colour'') a black colour, like that of sable fur.
#:<table><tr><td>sable colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#394243" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>

====Translations====
'''animal'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[samur#Bosnian|samur]] {{m}}, [[sabolj#Bosnian|sabolj]] {{m}}
*French: [[zibeline]]
*Finnish: [[soopeli]]
*Japanese: [[クロテン]] (kuroten)
*Russian: [[соболь]]

{{mid}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[самур]] {{m}}, [[сабољ]] {{m}}
*:Latin: [[samur#Serbian|samur]] {{m}}, [[sabolj#Serbian|sabolj]] {{m}}
*Turkish: [[samur#Turkish|samur]]
{{bottom}}

'''fur'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[soopelinnahka]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[クロテンの毛皮]] (kuroten no kegawa)
{{bottom}}

'''heraldic colour'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[crna#Bosnian|crna]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[crna#Croatian|crna]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[sabel]], [[zwart]]
*French: sable
*German: [[Schwarz]]
*Polish: [[czarna]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: sable
*Romanian: [[neagră]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[црна#Serbian|црна]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[crna#Serbian|crna]] {{f}}
*Slovak: [[čierna]]
{{bottom}}

'''colour'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[crna#Bosnian|crna]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[crna#Croatian|crna]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[黒色]] (kuro iro)
{{mid}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[црна#Serbian|црна]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[crna#Serbian|crna]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''sable'''
#(''colour'') of a black colour, like that of sable fur.
#{{tincture}}: In [[blazon]], of the colour black.

====Translations====
'''colour'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[crna#Bosnian|crna]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[crna#Croatian|crna]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[黒色]]の (kuro iro no)
{{mid}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[црна#Serbian|црна]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[crna#Serbian|crna]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''of black colour on a coat of arms'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[crna#Bosnian|crna]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[crna#Croatian|crna]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[zwart]] {{m}}, [[sabel]]
*French: sable
*German: [[schwarz]]
*Hungarian: [[fekete]]
*Italian: [[nero]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[czarny]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: sable
*Romanian: [[negru]]
*Russian: [[черный]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[црна#Serbian|црна]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[crna#Serbian|crna]] {{f}}
*Spanish: sable
*Swedish: [[svart]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[sable antelope]]
*[[sablefish]]

===Related words===
*[[zibeline]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Blacks]]
[[Category:Mammals]]

==French==
===Noun===
#[[sand]]
#The heraldic colour '''sable'''; black.

===Related Terms===
# [[bac à sable]]

== Spanish == 
=== Noun === 
'''sable''' ''m'' 
# [[saber]]; [[cutlass]]

[[Category:Spanish nouns]]

[[et:Sable]]
[[fr:sable]]
[[gl:Sable]]
[[it:sable]]