==English==
===Etymology===
Participle adjective of [[sacre]].

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /'seɪkrɪd/

====Adjective====
'''sacred'''
#[[Set]] [[apart]] by [[solemn]] [[religious]] [[ceremony]]; especially, in a good sense, made [[holy]]; set apart to religious use; [[consecrate]]d; not [[profane]] or [[common]]; as, a '''sacred''' place; a '''sacred''' day; '''sacred''' service.
#Relating to religion, or to the services of religion; not [[secular]]; religious; as, '''sacred''' history.
#*Smit with the love of '''sacred''' song. ''[[Milton]]''.
#[[Designate]]d or [[exalt]]ed by a [[divine]] [[sanction]]; possessing the highest title to [[obedience]], [[honor]], [[reverence]], or [[veneration]]; entitled to extreme [[reverence]]; [[venerable]].
#*Such neighbor nearness to our '''sacred''' [royal] blood Should nothing privilege him. ''[[Shakespeare]]''
#*Poet and saint to thee alone were given, The two most '''sacred''' names of earth and heaven. ''[[Cowley]]''.
#Hence, not to be profaned or [[violate]]d; [[inviolable]].
#*Secrets of marriage still are '''sacred''' held. ''[[:w:John Dryden|Dryden]]''.
#Consecrated; [[dedicate]]d; [[devote]]d; -- with to.
#*A temple, '''sacred''' to the queen of love. ''[[:w:John Dryden|Dryden]]''.
#Solemnly devoted, in a bad sense, as to evil, vengeance, curse, or the like; accursed; baleful. [Archaic]
#*But, to destruction '''sacred''' and devote. ''[[:w:John Milton|Milton]]''.
====Translations====
*Bosnian: [[sveto]]
*Russian: [[священный]]
*Serbian:
:*Cyrillic: [[свето]]
:*Latin: [[sveto]]

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /'seɪkəd/

====Verb form====
'''sacred'''
* past tense and past participle form of [[sacre]].

[[fr:sacred]]
[[io:Sacred]]
[[it:sacred]]
[[ru:Sacred]]
[[fi:sacred]]