{{see|-safe}}
==English==

{{rank|board|associated|worse|977|safe|main|q|greatly}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{SAMPA|/seIf/}}
*{{IPA|/seɪf/}}
*{{audio|en-us-safe.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪf|-eɪf]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-er-e|saf|e}}

# Not in [[danger]]; free from [[harm]]'s reach.
#:''You’ll be '''safe''' here.''
# Free from risk; [[harmless]], [[riskless]].
#:''It’s '''safe''' to eat this.''
#:''If you push it to the limit, safety is not guaranteed.
# Providing [[protection]] from [[danger]]; providing [[shelter]].
#:''We have to find a '''safe''' spot, where we can hide out until this is over.''
# Properly secured; [[secure]].
#:''The documents are '''safe'''.''
# {{slang}} Describing something [[wicked]] - [[cool]] - [[awsome]]
#:''Slang/modern expression for describing nouns or verbs.
#*A regular term of approbation, non SAE. Equivalent of [[smart]], good looking, etc. (origions unknown) 1978 ''A dictionary of South African English. Edited Jean Branford. Oxford.''
#*'''SAFE''', MY MATE: It is hard to trace the origin of this widely-used phrase, but the "mate" indicates an Australian connec-tion. It means "okay" or "fine" at the end of an exchange. For example, if your mechanic says your car has been repaired and can be driven again, you can say "'''Safe''', my mate." But it is not an appropriate response if your boss says your work is lousy and you are being watched. [http://www.matriots.com/cyberbraai/cyber2g.html]
#*As we passed one bleary-eyed twentysomething he formed his right hand into one of those "'''safe''' my mate" signs, shook it mockingly at us and uttered: "Ooooh, they’ve got a CONDOR [http://www.iol.co.za/index.php?set_id=4&click_id=2807&art_id=iol1030436970967W532]

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[veilig]] (1,2,3,4); [[ongevaarlijk]] (2); [[veiliggesteld]], [[zekergesteld]] (4)
*Finnish: [[turvallinen]] (1,2,3); [[turvassa]] (4)
{{mid}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[క్షేమం]] (kshaemaM), భద్రం (bhadraM), [[పదిలం]] (padilaM), పైలం (pailaM)
{{bottom}}

After the addition of (3) and (4), the following translations have not been adapted yet:
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[سليم]]}} {{IPAchar|(salīm)}} (1, 2)
*Chinese: [[安全]] (ānquán) (1, 2)
*French: [[sauf]] (1), [[sûr]] (2)
*German: [[sicher]] (1, 2)
*Hungarian: [[biztonságos]], [[biztos]] (1, 2)
*Indonesian: [[aman]], [[selamat]] (1, 2)
*Interlingua: [[salve]] (1); [[secur]] (1, 2)
*Italian: [[sicuro]] (1, 2)
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[安全]] ([[あんぜん]], anzen) (1, 2)
*Korean: [[안전한]] (anjeonhan) (1, 2)
*Norwegian: [[sikker]] (1, 2)
*Portuguese: [[salvo]] (1); [[seguro]] (1, 2); [[certo]] (2)
*Russian: [[безопасный]] (bezopásnyj) (1, 2)
*Spanish: [[salvo]] (1), [[seguro]] (2)
*Swedish: [[säker]] (1, 2)
*Volapük: [[sefik]] (1), [[neriskodik]] (2)
{{bottom}}

====Antonyms====
*[[unsafe]]
*[[dangerous]]
*[[harmful]]
*[[insecure]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A box, usually made of metal, in which valuables can be locked for [[safekeeping]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kluis]] {{f}}, safe {{f}}
*Finnish: [[kassakaappi]]
*French: [[coffre-fort]] {{m}}
*Interlingua: [[cassa forte]], [[coffro]]
*Japanese: [[金庫]] ([[きんこ]], kinko)
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[cofre]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[сейф]]
*Spanish: [[caja-fuerte]] {{f}}, [[cofre]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[kassaskåp]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[Coolgardie safe]]
*[[safeguard]]
*[[safekeeping]]

===See also===
*[[save]]
*[[safety]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[de:safe]]
[[fr:safe]]
[[io:safe]]
[[it:safe]]
[[hu:safe]]
[[simple:safe]]
[[fi:safe]]
[[ta:safe]]
[[vi:safe]]