'''Sameer''' is a very popular [[lyricist]] in [[Hindi]]-language [[Cinema of India|Indian]] films. He has written the lyrics to more songs in Indian movies than any other lyricist.
Anjan,the well-known lyricist, refused to help his son when he wanted to follow in his foot-steps. The whole family was against the boy’s joining the risky world of films. Sameer, the son, however managed very well on his own. He was born Shitla Pandey and completed his Master’s Degree in Commerce from Banaras Hindu University before reverting to his first love – writing lyrics for films!

It is quite strange that although having somebody in the industry is sometimes a contributing factor to somebody’s success, it worked the other way round for Sameer. He had to go through his share of toil and hardship to achieve his position. Anjaan’s name helped him to get an audience with the music directors or directors, but beyond this it nearly proved to be his undoing. Some of the directors thought that he was just taking a chance at writing without being really serious. Others would be suspicious of his writing skills and ask him to write lyrics in front of them. At times some songs would meet their approval, but the credit would go to the more illustrious father. It was also from his father that he learnt that nothing succeeds like success in the film industry and once the ball is set in motion, there is no stopping it.

Sameer emerges from the bottom

Starting at the bottom of the ladder like any newcomer, the first song he wrote was in 1983 for the film Bekhabar - ‘Gori Pareshan Hai Kali Pareshan Hai’. With 'Dil', Sameer became the hottest new lyricist on the block. All songs were hits and with Anand Milind dodging questions of plagiarism, it was Sameer who occupied centre stage for his melodious words. 'Aashiqui' created the biggest impact. This Gulshan Kumar film, which launched another composer duo Nadeem – Shravan had lyrics penned by Sameer, firmly establishing him as one of the top songwriters of the Hindi film industry

Sameer used to work only for two composers: Anand Milind and Nadeem Shravan. The rest either did not approach him or vice versa. This phase came to an abrupt end when his father passed away and within days his mentor Gulshan Kumar was shot dead. Immediately afterwards his friend Nadeem was arrested in the same case. It was too much of a shock and Sameer left Mumbai for Varanasi to get over the mental anguish.

He went on to work at breakneck speed, churning out some 3500 songs in the next ten years, setting a record of sorts. He worked with the maximum number of music directors and whatever his detractors said, he proved his complete versatility, working in two languages, Hindi and Bhojpuri. On his return he first worked on 'Haseena Maan Jaayegi' whose music was being done by Anu Malik after Nadeem’s imprisonment. Anu even helped him to get films like 'Soldier', 'Hum Aap ke Dil Mein Rahte Hain' and 'Sooryavansham'.

It was like a second coming for the lyricist when he bagged 'Kuch Kuch Hota Hai' on Yash Chopra’s proposal. Similarly the hugely popular 'Ghulam' had Sameer’s signature as also 'Pyar To Hona Hi Tha' on Jatin – Lalit’s recommendation. They are the people who are responsible for the sustenance of Sameer’s career.

Sameer No.1

Sameer who has written most of the songs for the No 1 series starring Govinda has always been accused of the vulgarity prevalent in the Indian music scene. 'Sarkailo Khatiya' from 'Raja Babu' became a huge controversy although Sameer says he never knew the picturisation would be so gross. He says some of the folk songs are like this and he is not responsible for the trend of vulgar lyrics as such films continue to be made even after he has stopped writing such lyrics. The romantic numbers from 'Aashiqui', 'Saajan', 'Dil Hai Ki Manta Nahi', 'Yeh Dillagi', 'Dilwale', 'Sadak', 'Kuch Kuch Hota Hai' are proof that the output has been varied and dictated by the needs of the film. “I do not write for only the elite”, he claims proudly.To cater to different standards requires some skill and Sameer proves that he is capable of this jugglery time and again.

After the recent upheavals in his personal and professional life Sameer seems to have reached an even keel with work and family. A lyricist who says that pain has to be first felt to be able to express it, says that now is his most creative time, doing fewer and selective films.

The Best of Sameer
Song	Movie
Ek sanam chaahiye aashiqui ke liye 	Aashiqui
Ab tere bin jee lenge ham 	Aashiqui
Nazar ke saamne jigar ke paas 	Aashiqui
Main yahaan tu vahaan 	Baghban
Deevaane pyaar ke hain ham deevaane 	Deewane
Kaali naagin ke jaisi zulfen 	Mann
Odhani odh ke Naachoon 	Tere Naam
Tere naam 	Tere naam
Dheere Dheere Pyaar Ko Badhana hai 	Phool aur Kaante
Ghoonghat Ki Aadh Se Dilbar Ka 	Hum Hain Rahi Pyar Ke
Dhak Dhak Karne Laga 	Beta
Mujhe Neend Na Aaye 	Dil
Badi Mushkil Hai 	Anjaam
Mehbooba Mehbooba 	Ajnabee
Chunari Chunari 	Biwi No. 1
Bairi Piya 	Devdas
You are my Soniya 	Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Gham
Kitni Bechain Hoke 	Kasoor
Koi Mil Gaya 	Kuch Kuch Hota Hai
Ankhiyaan Milaaoon 	Raja
Zara zara bahekta hai 	Rehna Hai Tere Dil Mein
Ye haseen vaadiyaan 	Roja
Tera Rang Balle Balle 	Soldier

Awards
Award	Movie
Filmfare - 1990	Aashiqui
Filmfare - 1992	Deewana
Filmfare - 1993	Hum Hai Rahi Pyar Ke
Zee Cine - 1998	Kuch Kuch Hota Hai
{{songwriter-stub}}
{{India-bio-stub}}