{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Eponym of U.S. Senator [[w:Rick Santorum|Rick Santorum]], coined by columnist [[w:Dan Savage|Dan Savage]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# lubricant mixed with fecal matter, a product of anal sex

====Quotations====
* '''2003''' http://gauntlet.ucalgary.ca/supplements/79/index.php?sid=6535
*:Sex: The most effective method of study avoidance. Common side effect, santorum.

* '''2004''' http://listserv.linguistlist.org/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0402a&L=ads-l&P=17266
*:The vast majority of erotica writers would leave santorum out of their stories, even kinky ones.

* '''2005''' http://cowboycaleb.liquidblade.com/?p=962
*:I agree with you 100% that AIDS is caused and spread by all those disgusting homo’s with their BBBJ, santorum, greek love and frenching.

* '''2006''' http://www.mnspeak.com/mnspeak/archive/post-1211.cfm
*:OK now that I've cleaned the santorum runoff on my leg, here's my belated nominations:

* http://www.bostonphoenix.com/boston/news_features/savage/documents/04272182.asp
*:And I’m only running it so that I can swear, on my santorum-smudged Bible, that I’m getting back to sex.

*http://www.vocis.com/frank/archives/00000128.html
*:In case you forgot, santorum is the frothy mix of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex.

*http://irregulartimes.com/index.php/archives/2005/06/10/anal-sex-its-in-there-yes-indeedy/
*:Myrrh? That’s a reddish-brownish, pungent sticky substance. Oh yes, yes indeedy, it’s Biblical! The holy santorum reigneth. Or frotheth.

*http://sayanythingblog.com/2005/12/01/world_aids_day_doing_my_part/
*:Just remember to always, always, ALWAYS use a latex condom and plenty of water-based lube and have a strong detergent handy in case you get a santorum stain on your sheet.

*http://www.thestranger.com/seattle/SavageLove?oid=14566
*:While everyone who has anal sex has to confront a little santorum now and again, no one likes to think about santorum, much less discuss it.

*http://austin.indymedia.org/newswire/display/15577/index.php
*:Give em the Santorum! Cream those bastards with used sex slime!

*http://lilbucner.blogspot.com/2003_06_01_lilbucner_archive.html
*:In a Santorum (the senator, not the frothy mixture)-like remark, he said that "the Court has largely signed on to the homosexual agenda" while at the same time noting that he has "nothing against homosexuals."

*http://www.cruisingforsex.com/columnDOUG/columnDOUG15.html
*:It is not at all unusual to have some shit and santorum on your dick and the sheets after sex, but it is unusual to stop in the middle of the act and let this issue end the fun.

*http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=fecal+urgency
*:fecal urgency: Similar to santorum but no sex is involved.

*http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Shartface
*:similar in substance to santorum

*http://www.smartbitchestrashybooks.com/index.php/weblog/hot_sauce/
*:What are the positional variations? And isn’t there, well, santorum?

*http://www.sensibleerection.com/entry.php/58273
*:Too much info is that I usually take a turkey baster and put the semen in my ass first, with a little lube, so that it will remind of the first time my uncle had sex with me and fed me the santorum from my own anus.

*http://www.poormojo.org/cgi-bin/gennie.pl?Squid+144+bi
*:Or if it was a back-door delivery, with extra santorum and all.

*http://www.villagevoice.com/issues/0327/savage.php
*:I am new to anal sex and enjoy it, despite the embarrassment of occasional santorum.

*http://forums.tvgasm.com/archive/index.php/t-203.html
*:well Tabby- I weep from other orifices. Doesn't that count?:p
*:Are we talking santorum here?

*http://blog.eponymous.org/?cat=16&paged=2
*:First and foremost, it’s about defeating the “Equalitarian Agenda” (obviously something like the “Homosexual Agenda” but much less icky as it doesn’t involve the possibility of santorum, unironic handlebar mustaches, or leather chaps) and second, it’s all about Marriage and Children.

*http://chump.infoanarchy.org/2005/06/10/
*:Revel now in the santorum froth of the housing market.

*http://www.montrealmirror.com/2005/021005/disc.html
*:Boy George, Rufus Wainwright, Lou Reed and Devendra Banhart lend extra sparkle to this graceful glitter-opera, which climaxes with "Fistfull of Love," a glorious slip 'n' slide of a soul song that's well worth the Santorum stain.

*http://www.newshounds.us/2005/12/12/ann_coulter_a_noshow_on_your_world_wneil_cavuto.php
*:ann just could'nt scrub off the santorum.