==English==
===Etymology 1===
Anglo Saxon ''[[sæp]]''; akin to Old High German ''[[saf]]'', German ''[[saft]]'', Icelandic ''[[safi]]''; of uncertain origin; possibly akin to Latin ''[[sapere]]'' to taste, to be wise, ''[[sapa]]'' must or new wine boiled thick; compare '''[[sapid]]''' and '''[[sapient]]'''

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg-both}}

#(''uncountable'') The juice of plants of any kind, especially the ascending and descending juices or circulating fluid essential to nutrition.
#(''uncountable'') The [[sapwood]], or [[alburnum]], of a tree.
#(''countable'') {{slang}} A [[simpleton]]; a [[saphead]]; a [[milksop]]; a [[naive]] person.
#(''countable'') A leather-covered hand weapon; a [[blackjack]].

====Derived terms====
*[[crude sap]]
*[[elaborated sap]]
*[[sap ball]]
*[[sap green]]
*[[sap poison]]
*[[sap rot]]
*[[sap sucker]]
*[[sap tube]]
<!-- from Webster 1913:
=====Derived terms=====
*'''[[Sap ball]]''', ''{{botany}}:'' any large fungus of the genus ''[[Polyporus]]''
*'''[[Sap green]]:''' a dull light green pigment prepared from the juice of the ripe berries of the ''[[Rhamnus catharticus]]'', or [[buckthorn]]. It is used especially by water-color artists
*'''[[Sap rot]]:''' the dry rot. See under [[dry]]
*'''[[Sap sucker]],''' ''(Zoölogy):'' any one of several species of small American [[woodpeckers]] of the genus ''[[Sphyrapicus]]'', especially the yellow-bellied woodpecker ''[[Sphyrapicus varius]]'' of the Eastern United States. They are so named because they puncture the bark of trees and feed upon the sap. The name is loosely applied to other woodpeckers
*'''[[Sap tube]],''' ''{{botany}}:'' a vessel that conveys sap
-->

=====Translations=====
'''the juice of plants of any kind'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[mahla]]
*French: [[sève]] {{f}}
*German: [[Saft]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[savia]] 
{{bottom}}

'''the sapwood of a tree'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Mantelholz]] {{n}}, [[Splint]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slang: a saphead'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[hölmö]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a leather-covered hand weapon'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: sap {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[succo]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[linfa]]

===Etymology 2===
{{F.}} ''[[saper]]'' (compare Spanish ''[[zapar]]'' and Italian ''[[zapare]]'') from ''[[sape]]'' a sort of scythe, from Late Latin ''[[sappa]]'' a sort of mattock

====Transitive verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|sap||p}}
# To [[subvert]] by digging or wearing away; to mine; to [[undermine]]; to destroy the foundation of.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Nor safe their dwellings were, for '''sapped''' by floods, / Their houses fell upon their household gods. - [[John Dryden]]
#{{military}} To pierce with saps.
# To make unstable or infirm; to unsettle; to weaken.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Ring out the grief that '''saps''' the mind. - [[Alfred Tennyson]]

=====Translations=====

'''undermine'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[heikentää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''pierce with saps'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''make unstable; weaken'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[uuvuttaa]], [[heikentää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Intransitive verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|sap||p}}
# To proceed by mining, or by secretly undermining; to execute saps - [[W. P. Craighill]]
#: ''Both assaults carried on by '''sapping'''''. - [[The Tatler]]

=====Translations=====

'''proceed by mining'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

#{{military}} A narrow ditch or trench made from the foremost parallel toward the glacis or covert way of a besieged place by digging under cover of gabions, etc.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[sap fagot]]
*[[sap roller]]
<!--From Webster 1913:
*'''Sap fagot,''' ''(Military):'' a [[fascine]] about three feet long, used in sapping, to close the crevices between the [[gabions]] before the [[parapet]] is made
*'''Sap roller,''' ''(Military):'' a large [[gabion]], six or seven feet long, filled with [[fascine]]s, which the sapper sometimes rolls along before him for protection from the fire of an enemy.
-->

=====Translations=====

'''narrow ditch or trench'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[juoksuhauta]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''sap''' {{n}}

#[[sap#English|sap]]
#[[juice]]


----

==Turkish==
===Noun===
'''sap'''

#[[shaft]]

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]

----

==[[Volapük]]==
===Noun===
'''sap'''

#[[wisdom]]

[[ang:sap]]
[[fr:sap]]
[[io:sap]]
[[id:sap]]
[[it:sap]]
[[ja:sap]]
[[pl:sap]]
[[fi:sap]]
[[zh:sap]]