sasae: Stamped and Self Addressed Envelope

Some businesses offer certain printed matter and some part of a responsibility of forwarding printed matter, especially such printed matter as might fit in an envelope, if the requester includes a Stamped And Self Addressed Envelope.

On television especially, a program ends with such as "for transcripts, please include an SASAE".

Sometimes the offerer of the service at perhaps something of a less wonders:
"What kind of size of transcripts would you expect to have fit into an invitation envelope of less than the size of a standard lettermail minimum?"

Sometimes transcripts are quick sizable.
An hourlong program with notes and diagrams may well not fit into envelope yet smaller than a minimum requested.

The idea that one need send a very large envelope, larger still than what is to be returned enveloping the scripts to some seems a waste.
Recycling the sent envelope, if large enough, to avoid a 2nd envelope, may result in a product received in a 'travelled both ways, bears twice the passage markings and processing and postages and coverings and dangers of breaking open and more.

Some have foresight enough to suggest an SASAE equivalent.
If a $5US charge is offered as alternative to sending and SASAE (an equivalent), the offerer risks bounced cheques and fees for same.
Is a range of cheque acceptance allowed? Is there some redress to bounced cheques that's economic? Should the costs be spread over any number of financial instruments?
Should there be discounts for such as certified cheques?
Discarding of other than certified cheques?
Notices due in any event? In no event?
Credit card, Paypal, cash accepted even if expressly discouraged in publication, cheques and other financial instrument a range acceptable for additionally possibly the sending of transcripts via the internet or online postings of transcripts?

I dunno.