==English==
===Noun===
'''scab''' (''plural'' '''scabs''')
# An incrustation over a sore, wound, vesicle, or pustule, formed by the drying up of the discharge from the diseased part.
#(''colloquial or obsolete'') The itch in man.
#(''colloquial or obsolete'') The scurvy.
#The mange, especially when it appears on sheep.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1882''': Scab was the terror of the sheep farmer, and the peril of his calling. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 4, p. 306.
#A disease of potatoes producing pits in their surface, caused by a minute fungus (''Tiburcinia scabies'').
#(''founding'') A slight irregular protuberance which defaces the surface of a casting, caused by the breaking away of a part of the mold.
#A mean, dirty, paltry fellow. 
#(''slang'') A workman who engages for lower wages than are fixed by the trades unions.
#(''slang'') A workman takes the place of another on a strike.
#(''botany'') Any one of various more or less destructive fungus diseases attacking cultivated plants, and usually forming dark-colored crustlike spots.

====Synonyms====

*(''slang: a workman takes the place of another on a strike''): [[blackleg]], [[strike-breaker]]

====Translations====

'''incrustation over a wound'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*German: [[Kruste]] ''f''
*Italian: [[crosta]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''colloquial or obsolete: the itch in man'''
''See [[itch]]''

'''colloquial or obsolete: the scurvy'''
''See [[scurvy]]''

'''the mange'''
''See [[mange]]''

'''disease of potatoes producing pits in their surface, caused by a minute fungus'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''founding: a slight irregular protuberance which defaces the surface of a casting, caused by the breaking away of a part of the mold'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''a mean, dirty, paltry fellow'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: a workman who engages for lower wages than are fixed by the trades unions'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''slang: a workman takes the place of another on a strike'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*German: [[Streikbrecher]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''botany: any one of various more or less destructive fungus diseases attacking cultivated plants, and usually forming dark-colored crustlike spots'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}