==English==

===Adjective===
'''scant'''
# very little, very few
#:  "After his previous escapades, Mary had '''scant''' reason to believe John."

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}
# '''Masonary''': A block of stone sawn on two sides down to the bed level.
#* These are the saws we use to produce sawn six side products. Top is our Mono Saw which we use to cut the raw block from the quarry. The slabs of stone produced are referred to as '''scants'''. [http://www.cotswoldstone.com/Saws%20&%20Equipment.htm]
#* The block is cut into slices called ‘scants’. The thickness of the '''scant''' being equal to the course heights of the finished blocks, which in the case of the Beasts were 1.5 metres. ''The carving for the lions and unicorns for St Georges, Bloomsbury.'' [http://www.thebeasts.info/Learning/Perryfield/index.htm]
# A [[sheet]] of stone.
#* After selection, the block is ‘primary sawn’. This transforms an uncut block into slices and is done either with large circular saws that have diamond-tipped blades – cutting one slice at a time – or with ‘frame saws’ which have a series of blades that cut each block into slices in a single operation. The stone slices or ‘'''scants'''’ are then sawn-to-size – for splitting and pitching in the case of walling stone – or cut-to-size and profile for finished masonry. For some projects, hand masonry is required and this is done to specification. [http://www.stancliffe.com/guidance_notes.htm]
#*The production is highly technical with large formwork blocks produced and cured under controlled conditions. Thereafter the cutting of the block into ''''scants'''' (sheets 10-30mm) polishing and cut to format is very similar to that of traditional stones. [http://www.stone-ceramic.co.uk/cases.asp?ID=25]

# '''Timber''': A slightly thinner measurement of a standard wood size.
#*How does full width differ from '''scant''' width? 
#*All lumber is produced with a stated width, which is the target size. As milling has become more accurate, target sizes have moved closer to surfaced or planed sizes, i.e. 5 1/2". As the width diminishes, the actual width is '''scant'''-or less than-the nominal width. See examples below: 
#*Full Width |   '''Scant''' Width
#*6" |         5-1/2"
#*4" |         3-1/2"
#*3" |         2-1/2" [http://www.fenceonline.com/faq-wood.html - 46k]
#* Picture. [http://www.ge-robinson.co.uk/ Images/TimberScantsPic3...]
#*Rough-green lumber sizes are measured and correlated to mill's target sizes. When necessary, size changes are suggested to avoid grade loss from '''scant''' lumber. [http://www.spib.org/sawmillsurveys.shtml?/lumberservices]
#*Are you buying rough KD 5/4 lumber? If so, it can be 1/16" '''scant''' of the nominal thickness, meaning 1-3/16" is okay. The general thickness of 1-3/16" applies to the cuttings and not to the entire piece - that is, wane or other thin spots outside of the "cutting area used to determine the grade" can be under 1-3/16" thick. Quartersawn 5/4 lumber has even more tolerance (3/32" '''scant'''), due to the excessive shrinkage in thickness for such lumber. [http://www.woodweb.com/knowledge_base/Kiln_drying_for_higher_profit.html]

====Synonyms====
*[[few]]
*[[little]] (as used above)
*[[slight]]

====Antonyms====
*[[ample]]
*[[plenty]]

====Related terms====
*[[scantily]]
*[[scanty]]

====See also====
[[scants]]
[[fr:scant]]
[[it:scant]]