==English==

===Etymology===
German ''[[Schaden]]'': damage, harm + ''Freude'': joy

===Pronunciation===
/'&#643;&#593;:dn,fr&#596;&#618;d&#601;/

===Noun===
'''schadenfreude'''

Schadenfreude f

   1. The glee we experience from someone else's deserved misfortune.

Schadenfreude is the glee we experience when somebody we do not care for receives his just desserts. For example, a person who in the past always looked down on you suddenly stubbs his toe and dances around on one foot like a fool experiencing excruciating pain. Gleefully you enjoy the comical sight. The enjoyment you experience is Schadenfreude! 

====See also====
*[[epicaricacy]]
*[[sadism]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[zloradost#Bosnian|zloradost]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[幸災樂禍]]
*Dutch: [[leedvermaak]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[vahingonilo]]
*French: [[joie maligne]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[злорадство]] {{n}}
*{{gd}}: [[aighear-truaighe]]
*Swedish: [[skadeglädje]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[злорадoст#Serbian|злорадoст]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[zloradost#Serbian|zloradost]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

----

==German==

===Pronunciation===
/'&#643;&#593;:d&#601;n,fr&#596;&#618;d&#601;/

===Noun===
'''Schadenfreude''' ''f''

# The glee we experience from someone else's deserved misfortune.

[[fr:schadenfreude]]

Schadenfreude is the glee we experience when somebody we do not care for receives his just desserts.  For example, a person who in the past always looked down on you suddenly stubbs his toe and dances around on one foot like a fool experiencing excruciating pain. Gleefully you enjoy the comical sight. The enjoyment you experience is Schadenfreude! :-)  [[User:72.152.217.88|72.152.217.88]]