==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-scoop.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːp|-uːp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#Any cup- or bowl- shaped object, usually including a [[handle]] used to lift and move loose material.
#:''She kept a '''scoop''' in the dog food 
#The [[amount]] or [[volume]] of loose material held by a particular scoop.
#:''Use one '''scoop''' of coffee for each pot.''
#The [[amount]] or [[volume]] of solid material held by a particular scoop which is formed into a ball.
#: ''I'll have one scoop of chocolate icecream''
#A [[story]] or [[fact]]; especially, news learned and reported before anyone else.
#:''He listened carefully, in hopes of getting the [[scoop]] on the debate.''
#(''automotive'') An opening in a [[hood]]/[[bonnet]] or other [[body]] panel to admit air, usually for cooling the [[engine]].
#The digging attachment on a [[front-end loader]].

====Translations====
''Any cup- or bowl- shaped object''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Mandarin: [[勺]] (sháo)
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
''loose material''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Mandarin: [[勺]] (sháo) (ex. [[一]]'''勺'''[[咖啡]] ''one '''scoop''' of coffee'')
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
''solid material formed into a ball''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Mandarin: [[球]] (qiú) (ex. [[一]]'''球'''[[冰淇淋]] ''one '''scoop''' of icecream'')
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
''exclusive story or fact''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Mandarin: {{zh-ts|獨家新聞|独家新闻}} (dújiāxīnwén)
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''scoop'''

#To lift, move, or collect with a scoop or as though with a scoop.
#:''He used both hands to '''scoop''' water and splash it on his face.''
#To learn something, especially something worthy of a [[news]] article, before others.
#:''The paper across town '''scooped''' them on the City Hall scandal.''

===Anagrams===
*[[coops]]

====Translations====
''lift, move, or collect''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Mandarin: [[舀]] (yǎo)
{{bottom}}

[[da:scoop]]
[[fr:scoop]]
[[it:scoop]]
[[vi:scoop]]
[[zh:scoop]]