{{Wikipedia}}
== English ==
===Pronunciation===
screen
*IPA: /skriːn/
*SAMPA: /<tt>skri:n</tt>/
*AHD: skrēn

=== Noun ===
'''screen''' (''plural: screens'')

# A physical divider intended to block an area from view.
# A material woven from fine [[wire]]s intended to block animals or large particles from passing while allowing gasses, liquids and finer particles to pass.
# The informational viewing area of electronic output devices; the result of the output.  
# The viewing area of a movie, or moving picture or slide presentation
# {{hoops}} An offensive tactic in which a player stands so as to block a defender from reaching a teammate.

====Translations====
*CJKV Characters: [[幕]]
*Greek: [[οθόνη]] (othoni)

====Synonyms====
*[[pick]] (''basketball'')

====Related terms====
*[[moving screen]]
*[[screen door]]
*[[screened-in]]
*[[silver screen]]
*[[smokescreen]]
*[[touch screen]]

=== Verb ===
'''to screen'''

# To filter by passing through a screen.
#: ''Mary '''screened''' the beans to remove the clumps of gravel.''
# To remove information, or [[censor]] intellectual material from viewing
#: ''The news report was '''screened''' because it accused the politician of wrongdoing.''
# (''film'', ''television'') To present publicly (on the screen).
#: ''The news report will be screened at 11:00 tonight.''
# To fit with a screen.
#: ''We need to screen this porch.  These bugs are driving me crazy.''

===Related terms===
*[[screen in]]
*[[screen out]]

===See also:===
[[w:Censorship|Wikipedia article on censorship]]

[[es:screen]]
[[hu:Screen]]
[[fi:Screen]]