==English==

===Pronunciation===
\Scrub\,

===Adjective===
'''scrub'''
# [[Mean]]; [[dirty]]; [[contemptible]]; scrubby.
#:''"How solitary, how '''scrub,''' does this town look!"''  -Walpole.
#:''"No little '''scrub''' joint shall come on my board."''  -Swift.

====Derived terms====
*[[Scrub game]] ''a game, as of ball, by unpracticed players.''
*[[Scrub race]] ''a race between scrubs, or between untrained animals or contestants.''

===Noun=== 
'''scrub'''
# One who labors hard and lives meanly; a mean fellow. ``A sorry scrub.'' --Bunyan.
#:''We should go there in as proper a manner possible; nor altogether like the scrubs about us.''  -Goldsmith.
# Something small and mean.
# A worn-out brush.
# A thicket or jungle, often specified by the name of the prevailing plant; as, oak scrub, palmetto scrub, etc.
# ''(Stock Breeding):'' One of the common live stock of a region of no particular breed or not of pure breed, esp. when inferior in size, etc. {{US}}
# Vegetation of inferior quality, though sometimes thick and impenetrable,  growing in poor soil or in sand; also, brush. See [[brush]], above.

====Derived terms====
*[[Scrub bird]] (Zool.), an Australian passerine bird of the family {Atrichornithid[ae]}, as {Atrichia clamosa}; -- called also {brush bird}.
*[[Scrub oak]] (Bot.), the popular name of several dwarfishspecies of oak. The scrub oak of New England and the Middle States is {Quercus ilicifolia}, a scraggy shrub; that of the Southern States is a small tree ({Q. Catesb[ae]i}); that of the Rocky Mountain region is {Q. undulata}, var. Gambelii.
*[[Scrub robin]] (Zo["o]l.), an Australian singing bird of the  genus {Drymodes}.

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|scrub||b}}
# ''([[transitive]]):'' To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate.
# ''([[Intransitive]]):'' To rub anything hard, especially with a wet brush; to scour; hence, to be diligent and penurious; as, to scrub hard for a living.
# ''([[transitive]]):'' To call off a scheduled event; to [[cancel]].
#: ''Engineers had to '''scrub''' the satellite launch due to bad weather.''

[[fr:scrub]]
[[io:Scrub]]
[[it:scrub]]