{{see|sé}}
==Translingual==
===Abbreviation===
'''Se'''
# see [[Se]]
'''se'''
#[[ISO]] country code for [[Sweden]]


----

==Bosnian==
===Pronoun===
'''se'''
#[[reflexive]] [[pronoun]]
#:[[myself]]
#:[[yourself]]
#:[[himself]]
#:[[herself]]
#:[[itself]]
#:[[ourselves]]
#:[[yourselves]]
#:[[themselves]]
#:[[oneself]]
====Synonyms====
*[[sebe]]
[[Category:bs:Pronouns]]


----

==Danish==
===Verb===
'''se''' ([[så]], [[set]])

#to [[see]]


----

==Esperanto==
===Conjunction===
'''se'''

#[[if]]

[[Category:Esperanto conjunctions]]
[[Category:Esperanto BRO1]]


----

==Finnish==
===Pronoun===
'''se''' (''stems'' '''se-''', '''si-''' ''and'' '''sii-''', ''see below'')
# [[it]]
# (''colloquial and dialectal'') [[he]], [[she]]
# (''demonstrative'') [[the]], [[that]] (''translation varies'').

===Declension===
This pronoun has unpredictable stems and even some case endings. For plural forms, see [[ne#Finnish|ne]]. The forms for [[comitative]], [[abessive]] and [[instructive]] don't exist.

<table border="1">
<tr><th>case</th><th>form</th></tr>
<tr><td>nominative</td> <td>se</td></tr>
<tr><td>genitive</td>   <td>sen</td></tr>
<tr><td>accusative</td> <td>sen, se</td></tr>
<tr><td>partitive</td>  <td>sitä</td></tr>
<tr><td>essive</td>     <td>sinä</td></tr>
<tr><td>translative</td><td>siksi</td></tr>
<tr><td>inessive</td>   <td>siinä</td></tr>
<tr><td>elative</td>    <td>siitä</td></tr>
<tr><td>illative</td>   <td>siihen</td></tr>
<tr><td>adessive</td>   <td>sillä</td></tr>
<tr><td>ablative</td>   <td>siltä</td></tr>
<tr><td>allative</td>   <td>sille</td></tr>
</table>

===Related terms===
*[[siellä#Finnish|siellä]]
*[[sieltä#Finnish|sieltä]]
*[[siksi#Finnish|siksi]]
*[[sinne#Finnish|sinne]]
*[[siis#Finnish|siis]]
*[[siten#Finnish|siten]]

[[Category:Finnish pronouns]]


----

==French==
===Reflexive pronoun===
'''se''' (can be abbreviated to [[s']])

#both for infinitive as for third person singular and plural

===See also===
[[me]], [[m']], [[te]], [[t']], [[nous]], [[vous]]

===Usage===
ex.: "s’endormir", to fall sleep. N.B.&mdash; Some verbs require ''se'' when they would not normally require seem so in English.


----

==Hungarian==

===Conjunction===
'''se'''

#[[neither]]

[[Category:Hungarian conjunctions]]


----

==Ido==
===Conjunction===
# [[if]]

[[Category: Ido language]]


----

==Interlingua==
===Pronoun===
'''se'''

#Reflexive, third person: [[oneself]], [[himself]], [[herself]], [[itself]], [[themselves]].
#:''Illa se videva in le speculo.'' = "She saw herself in the mirror."
#:Many verbs bear a reflexive pronoun by default: ''[[infiltrar]] se'' = "to infiltrate", ''[[repentir]] se'' = "to repent", etc. "Se" must be replaced by "[[me]]", "[[te]]", etc., according to the subject.
#Reciprocal: [[each other]], [[one another]].
#:''Quando illes se cognosceva?'' = "When did they meet (each other)?''
#Used for passive constructions with undetermined agent (translated by "[[one]]").
#:''De mi casa se vide le mar.'' = "From my house the sea is seen" or "From my house one sees the sea." (lit., "...the sea sees itself".)
#Hence, used for expressions of the type "to [[get]]/[[become]] ...-ed".
#:''espaventar'' = "to frighten"; ''espaventar se'' = "to get frightened" (lit., "to frighten oneself")


----

==Irish Gaelic==
'''sé'''
#[[he]]


----

==Italian==
===Conjunction===
'''se'''

#[[if]]


----

==Kurdish==
===Noun===
# [[dog]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]


----

==Lojban==
===Cmavo===
'''se''' (''[[rafsi]]:'' sel)
# refers to the x2 sumti of the following word

[[Category:jbo:Cmavo]]
----

==Norwegian==
===Verb===
{{no-verb|'''se'''|'''[[ser]]'''|'''[[så]]'''|'''[[sett]]'''}}
#to [[see]] ''(perceive with eyes)''


----

==Old English==
===Etymology===
Representing the Indo-European demonstrative pronoun ''*soi, *so'', adapted in West Germanic as a definite article by analogy with the ''t-'' stem forms (Old English [[þæt]]). Cognate with Old Saxon ''sē'', Old Norse [[sá]], Gothic [[𐍃𐌰]], Greek [[ὁ]]. See also feminine forms under [[seo|sēo]].

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/se/}}

===Demonstrative pronoun===
'''se''' {{m}}
# definite article: [[the]]
#:''se mona'': the moon
# demonstrative adjective: [[that]], [[those]]
#:''þone ræd gerædde Widsið'': Widsith gave that advice
# pronoun: [[he]], [[it]], [[that]] ''('''se''' is normally read as {{Unicode|'''sē'''}} when used pronominally)''
#:''þa ne sacað'': they do not quarrel

===Declension===
*Nominative: '''se''' (''plural'' {{Unicode|'''þā'''}})
*Accusative: '''þone''' (''plural'' {{Unicode|'''þā'''}})
*Genitive: '''þæs''' (''plural'' {{Unicode|'''þāra''', '''þǣra'''}})
*Dative: {{Unicode|'''þǣm''', '''þām'''}} (''plural'' {{Unicode|'''þǣm''', '''þām'''}})
*Instrumental: {{Unicode|'''þȳ''', '''þī'''}}, '''þon'''

===See also===
Feminine [[seo|sēo]], neuter [[þæt]]

[[Category:Old English pronouns]]
[[Category:Old English articles]]


----

==Portuguese==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|''Portugal'' /sə/, ''Brazil'' /si/}}

===Pronoun===
'''se'''

#Reflexive, third person: [[oneself]], [[himself]], [[herself]], [[itself]], [[themselves]].
#:''Ela se viu no espelho.'' = "She saw herself in the mirror."
#:Many verbs bear a reflexive pronoun by default; they are called ''pronominal verbs'': ''[[comunicar]]-se (com)'' = "to communicate (with)", ''[[arrepender]]-se'' = "to repent", etc. "Se" must be replaced by "[[me]]", "[[te]]", etc. according to the subject.
#Reflexive, related to the pronouns "[[você]], [[vocês]]": [[yourself]].
#:''E você se diz um professor!'' = "And you call yourself a teacher!"
#Reciprocal: [[each other]], [[one another]].
#:''Quando eles se conheceram?'' = "When did they meet (each other)?''
#Used for passive constructions with transitive verbs and undetermined agent (usually translated with [[one]]).
#:''Da minha casa se vê o mar.'' = "From my house the sea is seen" or "From my house one sees the sea." (lit. "...the sea sees itself".)
#Hence, used for expressions of the type "to [[get]]/[[become]] ...-ed".
#:''espantar'' = "to frighten"; ''espantar-se'' = "to get frightened" (lit. "to frighten oneself")
#It also developed to a form of undetermined subject for intransitive verbs (usually translated with "[[one]]").
#:''Vive-se bem em Belém.'' = "One lives well in Belém." (litt. *"&empty; lives oneself well in Belém.")

===Conjunction===
'''se'''

#[[if]].
#:''Se quiseres, eu compro.'' = "If you want (me to), I’ll buy (it)."


----

==Serbian==
===Pronoun===
'''se'''
#[[reflexive]] [[pronoun]]
#:[[myself]]
#:[[yourself]]
#:[[himself]]
#:[[herself]]
#:[[itself]]
#:[[ourselves]]
#:[[yourselves]]
#:[[themselves]]
#:[[oneself]]
====Synonyms====
*[[sebe#Serbian|sebe]]
====See also====
*[[се#Serbian|се]]
[[Category:sr:Pronouns]]


----

==Spanish==
===Reflexive pronoun===
'''se'''

# third person (and second person polite) reflexive pronoun
#:used as a suffix with verbs in the infinitive and imperative

===See also===
*[[sé]]


----

==Swedish==
===Verb===
{{sv-verb-irreg|se|ser|såg|sett|se|seende|sedd}}

# [[see]]
#*'''1888''': [http://runeberg.org/frkjulie/03.html Fröken Julie] by [[w:August Strindberg|August Strindberg]] - Tvärtom, fröken Julie, som ni '''ser''' har jag skyndat uppsöka min övergivna!
#*: Quite the opposite, miss Julie, as you can see I have rushed to find my abandonned one!
#*'''1915''': [http://runeberg.org/blagult/12.html ''Stjärnbanér i blågult''] by John Wahlborg - Vad jag '''sett''' och hört och känt har helt enkelt överväldigat mig.
#*: What I have seen and heard and felt has quite simply overwhelmed me.

====Hypernyms====
*[[förnimmer]]

====Coordinate terms====
*[[höra]]
*[[lukta]]
*[[smaka]]
*[[känna]]

====Derived terms====
*[[avse]]
*[[bortse]]
*[[inse]]

====See also====
*[[syn]]
*[[sikt]]

[[ang:se]]
[[de:se]]
[[et:se]]
[[fr:se]]
[[gl:se]]
[[io:se]]
[[it:se]]
[[ku:se]]
[[la:se]]
[[hu:se]]
[[no:se]]
[[pl:se]]
[[pt:se]]
[[sl:se]]
[[fi:se]]
[[sv:se]]
[[zh:se]]