==English==

===Noun===
# A design associated with a government or governmental office.
#: ''The front of the podium bore the presidential seal.''
# Something which will be visibly damaged if a covering or container is opened, and which may or may not bear an official design.
#: ''The result was declared invalid, as the seal on the meter had been broken.''
# Something designed to prevent liquids or gasses from leaking through a joint.
#: ''The canister is leaking.  I think the main seal needs to be replaced.''
# (''generally singular'') Security against leakage.
#: ''Close the lid tightly to get a good seal.''

===Transitive verb===
# To prevent from being opened without visible damage.
#: ''The cover is sealed.  If anyone tries to open it, we'll know about it''
# To prevent people or vehicles from crossing.
#: ''The border has been sealed until the fugitives are found.''
# To close securely to prevent leakage.
#: ''I've sealed the bottle to keep the contents fresh.''
# To place in a sealed container.
#: ''I've sealed the documents in this envelope.''
# (''chess'') To place a notation of ones next move in a sealed envelope to be opened after an adjournment.
#: ''After thinking for half an hour, the champion sealed his move.''

===Related terms===
*[[lips are sealed]]
*[[presidential seal]]
*[[royal seal]]
*[[official seal]]
*[[seal ones fate]]
*[[seal of approval]]

===See also===
*[[stamp]]

===Noun===
# A large, aquatic mammal of one of several genera of order pinnipedia.
#: ''The seals in the harbor looked better than they smelled.''

=== Translations ===
*Lithuanian: [[ruonis]] ''m''

===See also===
*[[sea lion]]
*[[walrus]]