===Etymology===
===[[noun]]===

# One-sixtieth of a [[minute]] in both [[time]] and [[angle]]. Literally, the second division of the hour, the minute being the first.
# The SI unit of time.  Defined as the duration of 9,192,631,770 periods of radiation corresponding to the transition between two hyperfine levels of cesium 133 in a ground state at a temperature of 0 K.
# A short, indeterminate amount of time: "I'll be there in a second."
# A manufactured item which, though still usable, fails to meet quality control standards.
# The [[attendant]] of a [[contestant]] in a [[duel]] or [[box|boxing]] [[match]], who must be ready to take over if the the contestant drops out. In the case of a duel, the seconds may also fight each other at 90* to the other contestants.
# That which comes between first and third.
# Agree in addition. This is usually needed in most meetings in order to pass judgement etc.

====Translations====

*[[catalan]]: [[segon]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[seconde]] ''m'' (1,2), zo (3), meteen (3), tweede keus ''m'' (4), tweede soort ''f'' (4), secondant ''m'' (5), tweede ''n'' (6), bijval ''m'' (7)
*[[Finnish]]: [[sekunti]] (1, 2), [[hetki]] (3), [[sekunda]] (4), [[kannattaa]] (7)
*[[French]]: [[seconde]] ''m''
*[[Frisian]]: [[sekonde]] ''m''
*[[German]]: [[Sekunde]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[detik]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[secundo]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[秒]] ([[びょう]], byō)
*[[Italian]]: [[secondo]]
*[[Norwegian]]: [[sekunder]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[segundo]]
*[[Russian]]: [[секунда]] (1-3), [[поддерживать]] (7)
*[[Spanish]]: [[segundo]]
*[[Swedish]]: [[sekund]] (1, 2),  [[ögonblick]] (3),

===[[adjective]]===

# The ordinal form of the number [[two]]; following immediately after [[first]].

short: 2nd

====Translations====

*[[Catalan]]: [[segon]] , 2n ''m'', [[segona]], 2na ''f''
*[[Dutch]]: [[tweede]], 2de, 2e
*[[Esperanto]]: [[dua]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[toinen]]
*[[French]]: [[deuxième]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[twadde]], 2e
*[[German]]: [[zweite]], 2.
*[[Indonesian]]: [[kedua]], ke-2
*[[Interlingua]]: [[secunde]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[二番目]] (にばんめ, niban-me)
*[[Russian]]: [[второй]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[segundo]], [[segunda]]
*[[Swedish]]: [[andra]]
*[[Turkish]]: [[ikinci]], 2.

Expressions:

[[second hand]]

===[[verb]]===
# To agree as a second (adj.) person to some proposal, usually to reach a necessary quorum of [[two]].

*[[Dutch]]: [[bijvallen]], [[ondersteunen]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[secundar]]