==English==
===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''Segway'''&trade;
# a [[self-propelled]] [[scooter]] having two [[wheel]]s on one [[axle]] - it [[balance]]s itself using [[gyroscope]]s and [[tilt]] [[sensor]]s
===Homonyms===
*[[segue]]
Segway Dictionary (please add words) www.segwaynyny.com




Bezel - the plastic or rubber rim that holds the covering over the display and intelligent key port on the handlebar and over the charge port on the CSB. The CSB charge port cover is an environmental seal and should be replaced if damaged or missing.

BSA (balance sensor assembly) - the central monitoring unit, found in the center of the platform, which accounts for variaable terrain and communicates with the controller boards and the motors to balance the Segway HT

Charge Port and Cover - the receptacle on the CSB where one end of the AC power cord is plugged during battery charging. The charge port cover is an environmental seal that must be replaced if damaged.

Charger - a component in the CSB that allows the batteries to be charged with an AC electrical connection. An LED display indicates the battery charge status.

Controller Boards - the two integrated circuit boards located in the platform. The controller board in the front is often referred to as the "A" board, that in the rear as the "B" board (arrows on the chassis point to the front of the unit).

CS (control shaft) - a rigid aluminum shaft that houses the connections running between the handlebar and platform/CSB. It features 2 piece construction with a watertight seal.

CSB (control shaft base) - the aluminum base that connects the CS and stabilizes the handlebar.

CS clamp - the 3 part clamp found in the CSB that holds the CS in place. If damaged or stripped, all parts of the clamp must be replaced.

CS cord - the system of electrical conductors that runs from the handlebar through the CS and CSB to the controller

Display - the circular window on handlebar that shows machine conditions through LCD segments and LED colored lights.

Environmental seal - a watertight seal necessary to prevent damage to the Segway HT

Equalization mode - a charging mode when batteries charge faster than the trickle rate to equalize charge in all cells of the batteries.

Ferrule - the threaded connector that, with the height adjustment collar, holds the CS in place after height adjustments are made.

Handlebar - the handles that connect to the CS and house the items that allow the user to communicate with the Segway HT and vice versa. These include: the circuit board that controls the display and speaker, the LCD display, which indicates the Segway HT operating condition and battery levels; the steering control grip, with which the user steers right or left; and the mode button, which allows the user to turn the machine off or go into balance or follw mode.

Harness - a group of cables bound together to form 1 assembly, typically with connectors that plug or snap into place.

Height adjustment collar - the nut that holds the CS in place after height adjustments are made.

Hex wrench - a hexagonal wrench that fits the socket of a hex fastener

N-m (Newton-meter) - the measurement unit for torquing nuts, bolts, and screws.

Roll pins - the 2 small cylindrical pegs located on the gearbox that fit into holes on the chassis and align the gearbox on the chassis.

Six-lobe wrench - a wrench with a star shaped head that fits the socket of a 6-lobe fastener. The Segway HT uses 6-lobe fasteners in places, such as the chassis,

Steering control grip - the control grip on the handlebar that uses an embedded magnet mechanism to steer the Segway HY. It is installed in the factory on the left grip.

Torque wrench - a wrench that measures the amount of turning and twisting force applied in tightening a nut or bolt.

www.segwaynyc.com