==English==
===Etymology===
From {{L.}} [[servire]] ''serve'' via {{F.}} [[servir]] ''serve''

===Noun===
[[Category:English nouns]]
'''serve'''  (plural: [[serves]])
#''(tennis):'' the launch of the ball to start a volley.
#:''Whose '''serve''' is it?''
====Translations====
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[serve#Swedish|serve]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Tennis]]

===Verb===
[[Category:English verbs]]
'''to serve'''  ([[serves]], [[served]], [[serving]])
#<!--DefA-->To work for; to labor in behalf of; to exert one's self continuously or statedly for the benefit of; to do service for; to be in the employment of, as an inferior, domestic, serf, slave, hired assistant, official helper, etc.; specifically, in a religious sense, to obey and worship.
#<!--DefB-->To be subordinate to; to act a secondary part under; to appear as the inferior of; to minister to.
#<!--DefC-->To be suitor to; to profess love to.
#<!--DefD-->To wait upon; to supply the wants of; to attend; specifically, to wait upon at table; to attend at meals; to supply with food; as, to serve customers in a shop.
#<!--DefE-->Hence, to bring forward, arrange, deal, or distribute, as a portion of anything, especially of food prepared for eating; -- often with up; formerly with in.
#<!--DefF-->To perform the duties belonging to, or required in or for; hence, to be of use to; as, a curate may serve two churches; to serve one's country.
#<!--DefG-->To contribute or conduce to; to promote; to be sufficient for; to satisfy; as, to serve one's turn.
#<!--DefH-->To answer or be (in the place of something) to; as, a sofa serves one for a seat and a couch.
#<!--DefI-->To treat; to behave one's self to; to requite; to act toward; as, he served me very ill.
#<!--DefJ-->To work; to operate; as, to serve the guns.
#<!--DefK-->To bring to notice, deliver, or execute, either actually or constructively, in such manner as the law requires; as, to serve a summons.
#<!--DefL-->To make legal service opon (a person named in a writ, summons, etc.); as, to serve a witness with a subpeona.
#<!--DefM-->To pass or spend, as time, esp. time of punishment; as, to serve a term in prison.
#<!--DefN-->To copulate with; to cover; as, a horse serves a mare; -- said of the male.
#<!--DefO-->''(tennis):'' To lead off in delivering (the ball).
#<!--DefP-->To wind spun yarn, or the like, tightly around (a rope or cable, etc.) so as to protect it from chafing or from the weather. See under Serving.
#<!--DefQ-->To be a servant or a slave; to be employed in labor or other business for another; to be in subjection or bondage; to render menial service.
#<!--DefR-->To perform domestic offices; to be occupied with household affairs; to prepare and dish up food, etc.
#<!--DefS-->To be in service; to do duty; to discharge the requirements of an office or employment. Specifically, to act in the public service, as a soldier, seaman. etc.
#<!--DefT-->To be of use; to answer a purpose; to suffice; to suit; to be convenient or favorable.
====Translations====
<!---DefA--->'''Work for'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[serva]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefB--->'''Be subordinate to'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tjäna]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefC--->'''Be suitor to'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[uppvakta]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefD--->'''Attend, supply the wants'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefE--->'''Bring forward, distribute'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[servera]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefF--->'''Perform duties'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tjäna]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefG--->'''Contribute, promote'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefH--->''' '''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefI--->''' '''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefJ--->''' '''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefK--->''' '''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefL--->'''Make legal service'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefM--->'''Spend time of punishment'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[avtjäna]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefN--->'''(of a male) copulate'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[betäcka]] (''esp. about animals'')
{{bottom}}

<!---DefO--->'''Tennis'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[serva]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefP--->'''Wind spun yarn '''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefQ--->'''Be a servant'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tjäna]]
{{bottom}}

<!---DefR--->'''Perform domestic offices'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefS--->'''Be in service '''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

<!---DefT--->'''Be of use'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}




===Derived terms===
*[[service]]
*[[serviced]]
*[[server]]
*[[subservient]]

----

==French==
===Verb form===
'''serve'''

# ''first-, third-person singular subjunctive present of [[servir]]''

----

==Italian==
===Verb form===
'''serve'''

# ''third-person singular indicative present of [[servire]]''

[[Category:Etruscan derivations]]

[[io:Serve]]
[[it:serve]]
[[pl:Serve]]