{{See|Set}}

==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[AHD]]: sĕt
*[[IPA]]: /sɛt/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>sEt</tt>/

=== Transitive verb ===
{{en-infl-irreg|set|sets|setting|set|set}}

# to put (something) down, to rest.
#:''Set the tray there.''
# to punch a nail into wood so that its head is below the surface.
# to arrange with dishes and cutlery.
#:''set the table''
# to introduce
#:''set the scene''
# to locate, to backdrop (a play, etc)
#:''I will set the film in France''
# to compile, to make (a crossword)
# to prepare (a stage or film set).
# to fit (someone) up in a situation.

====Derived terms====
*[[set about]]
*[[set against]]
*[[set down]]
*[[set forth]]
*[[set off]]
*[[set out]]<!--#transitive: (with ''out'') to recount or display a narrative or argument (''she set out her concerns.''); #intransitive: (with ''out'') to start.  (''He set out to break the world record.'')-->
*[[set up]]

==== Translations ====
*Bulgarian: [[поставям]], [[слагам]] (1)
*Dutch: [[zetten]], [[instellen]]
*Finnish: [[asettaa]] (1)
*French: [[mettre]], [[preparer]]
*German: [[setzen]] (1), [[decken]] (3)
*Indonesian: [[atur|mengatur]], [[pasang|memasang]], [[pas|mempaskan]], [[tepat|menepatkan]]
*Interlingua: [[poner]], [[deponer]] (1), [[clavar]] (2), [[arrangiar]], [[preparar]] (3)
*Japanese: [[セット]]する (setto-suru)
*Portuguese: [[pôr]], [[colocar]] (1); [[cravar]], [[pregar]] (2); [[pôr]], [[arrumar]], [[preparar]] (3)
*Romanian: [[seta]], [[instala]]
*Slovak: [[položiť]] (1)
*Swedish: [[sätta]] (1), [[sänka]] (2), [[försänka]] (2), [[duka]] (3)
*Vietnamese: [[để]] (1), [[làm#Vietnamese|làm]] (3)

=== Intransitive verb ===
{{en-infl-irreg|set|sets|setting|set|set}}

#To solidify.
#:''The glue sets in 4 minutes.''
#(''of a heavenly body'') To disappear below the [[horizon]] because of the rotation of the Earth.

==== Translations ====

'''solidify'''
{{top}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[solidificar#Interlingua|solidificar]] se (1)
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[solidificar#Portuguese|solidificar]]-se (1)
{{bottom}}

'''of a heavenly body'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Bulgarian: [[втвърдявам]] (1), [[започвам]], [[почвам]] (2)
*Dutch: [[harden#Dutch|harden]]
*Finnish: [[kovettua]] (1), [[lähteä]] (2), [[laskea]] (3)
*German: [[härten]] (1)
*Slovak: [[usadnúť]] (1), [[zapadnúť]] (3)
*Swedish: [[stelna]] (1), [[gå ned]], [[gå ner]] (3)
*Vietnamese: [[đi]] (2)

=== Verb form ===
'''set'''

#Past tense of '''to set'''
<!--do not translate verb forms
==== Translations ====
*Dutch: [[zette]], [[zetten]], [[stelde in]], [[stelden in]]
*Swedish: [[satte]], [[sänkte]], [[försänkte]], [[dukade]]
-->

=== Verb form ===
'''set'''

#Past participle of '''to set'''

<!--do not translate verb forms
==== Translations ====
*Dutch: [[gezet]], [[ingesteld]]
*Swedish: [[satt]], [[sänkt]], [[försänkt]], [[dukat#Swedish|dukat]]
-->

=== Noun ===
'''set''' (''plural'' '''sets''')

# A [[match]]ing [[collection]] of similar things.
#:''a '''set''' of tables''
#A collection of various objects for a particular purpose.
#:''a '''set''' of tools''
#An object made up several parts
#:''a '''set''' of steps''
#{{settheory}} A [[well-defined]] collection of mathematical [[object]]s (called '''[[element]]s''' or '''[[member]]s''') often having a common property.
#{{mathematics}} (''in plural'' '''sets''', ''informal'') [[Set theory]].
#A group of people, usually meeting socially.
#:''the country '''set'''''
# A [[punch]] for setting [[nail]]s in [[wood]].
#:''nail '''set'''''
# The [[scenery]] for a [[film]] or [[play]].
#(''dancing'') The initial or basic [[formation]] of [[dancer]]s.
#(''tennis'') A complete series of [[game]]s.
#A device for receiving broadcast radio waves; a radio or television.
#:''television set''
#''See'' '''[[sett]]'''<!--(''also'' '''sett''') A hole made and lived in by a [[badger]].-->
<!--not a noun sense: # device used to hold things (''a '''set''' screw'')-->

====Derived terms====
*[[close set]]<!--in set theory-->
*[[country set]]
*[[empty set]]<!--in set theory-->
*[[game, set and match]]
*[[jet set]]
*[[open set]]<!--in set theory-->
*[[set point]]<!--in tennis-->
*[[set theory]]
*[[television set]]

====Synonyms====
*(''matching collection of similar things''): [[suite]]
*(''set theory''): [[set theory]]
*(''group of people, usually meeting socially''): 
*(''scenery''): [[scenery]]

==== Translations ====

'''matching collection of similar things, such as a set of tables'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''collection of various objects for a particular purpose, such as a set of tools'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''object made up several parts, such as a set of steps'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''collection of mathematical objects, often having a common property'''
{{top}}
*French: [[ensemble#French|ensemble]] ''m''
*German: [[Menge]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[insieme]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''set theory'''
''See'' '''[[set theory]]'''

'''group of people, usually meeting socially'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''punch for setting nails in wood'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''scenery for a film or play'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''dancing: initial or basic formation of dancers'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in tennis'''
{{top}}
*French: set ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''device for receiving broadcast radio waves; a radio or television'''
{{top}}
*French: [[poste]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''badger's home'''
''See'' '''[[sett]]'''

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Bulgarian: [[комплект]] ''m'' (1), [[множество]] ''n'' (2)
*Chinese: [[集]], [[集合]]
*Dutch: [[verzameling]] (1,2), set (5)
*Esperanto: [[aro]] (1)
*Finnish: [[joukko]] (1-3)
*Interlingua: [[collection]] (1), [[insimul]] (2), [[scena]] (5)
*Latvian: [[kolekcija]] (1), [[kopa]] (2), [[scenārijs]] (5), [[uztvērējs]] (8)
*Portuguese: [[conjunto]] ''m'' (1,2); [[cenário]] (5)
*Romanian: [[mulţime]] ''f'' (1)
*Slovak: [[sada]] ''f'' (1), [[množina]] ''f'' (2), [[skupina]] ''f'' (3), [[scéna]] ''f'' (5)
*Swedish: [[mängd]] (2), set ''n'' (1,7), [[apparat]] (8), [[gryt]] (10), [[steg]] (11)
*Vietnamese: [[bộ]] (1)

=== Adjective ===
'''set''' ({{compar}} '''more set''', {{superl}} '''most set''')

#[[Ready]], [[prepared]].
#Determined (to do something).
#:''set on getting to his destination''
#[[Prearrange]]d.
#:''a set menu''
#Fixed in one's opinion.
#:''I'm dead set against the idea of smacking children to punish them.''
#Of hair, fixed in a certain style.

====Derived terms====
*[[thickset]]

====Translations====

'''ready, prepared'''
{{top}}
*French: [[prêt]] ''m'', prête ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[pronto#Italian|pronto]] ''m'', pronta ''f''
*Portuguese: [[pronto#Portuguese|pronto]], [[preparado]]
{{bottom}}

'''determined'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''prearranged'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fixed in one's opinion'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''of hair'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Dutch: [[klaar]]
*Finnish: [[valmis]] (1), [[tavallinen]] (2)
*German: [[fertig]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[preparate]]
*Swedish: [[färdig]] (1), [[redo#Swedish|redo]] (1)

----
==French==
===Noun===
'''set''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''sets''')

#set (''in tennis'')

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''set''' ''n'' (''plural'' '''set''', ''definite singular'' '''[[setet]]''', ''definite plural'' '''[[seten]]''')

#set (''matching collection of items'')
#set (''in tennis'')

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[et:Set]]
[[io:Set]]
[[it:set]]
[[pt:Set]]
[[ru:Set]]
[[fi:Set]]
[[sv:set]]