==English==

===Etymology===
Old English [[setl]], from Germanic *setla-, representing Indo-European *sed-lo-, from *sed- ‘sit’. Cognate with German [[Sessel]], Dutch [[zetel]]; and with Greek [[ἑλλά]], Latin [[sella]], Russian [[седло]].  The verb (Old English [[setlan]]) developed from the noun.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈsɛtəl/}}
*sĕtʹəl, /<tt>"sEt@l</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-settle.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛtəl|-ɛtəl]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# ''(archaic)'' A seat of any kind.
# A bench with a high back and arms.
# {{obsolete}} A place made lower than the rest; a wide step or platform lower than some other part.
#:Quotation:  And from the bottom upon the ground, even to the lower settle, shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit. --Ezek. xliii.

===Verb===
{{en-verb|settl|ing}}

# {{transitive}}: To place in a fixed or permanent condition; to make firm, steady, or stable; to establish; to fix; esp., to establish in life; to fix in business, in a home, or the like.
#:Quotation:  And he settled his countenance steadfastly upon him,until he was ashamed. --2 Kings VIII. 11. (Rev. Ver.)
#:Quotation:  The father thought the time drew on Of setting in the world his only son. --Dryden.
# {{transitive}}, {{obsolete}} {{US}}: To establish in the pastoral office; to ordain or install as pastor or rector of a church, society, or parish; as, to settle a minister.
# {{transitive}}: To cause to be no longer in a disturbed condition; to render quiet; to still; to calm; to compose.
#:Quotation:  God settled then the huge whale-bearing lake. --[[w:Chapman|Champman]].
#:Quotation:  Hoping that sleep might settle his brains. --Bunyan.
# {{transitive}}: To clear of dregs and impurities by causing them to sink; to render pure or clear; -- said of a liquid; as, to settle coffee, or the grounds of coffee.
# {{transitive}}: To restore or bring to a smooth, dry, or passable condition; -- said of the ground, of roads, and the like;as, clear weather settles the roads.
# {{transitive}}: To cause to sink; to lower; to depress; hence, also, torender close or compact; as, to settle the contents of a barrel or bag by shaking it.
# {{transitive}}: To determine, as something which is exposed to doubt or question; to free from unscertainty or wavering; to make sure, firm, or constant; to establish; to compose; to quiet; as, to settle the mind when agitated; to settle questions of law; to settle the succession to a throne; to settle an allowance.
#:Quotation:  It will settle the wavering, and confirm the doubtful. --Swift.
# {{transitive}}: To adjust, as something in discussion; to make up; to compose; to pacify; as, to settle a quarrel.
# {{transitive}}, {{archaic}}: To adjust, as accounts; to liquidate; to balance; as, to settle an account.
# {{transitive}}, {{colloquial}}: To pay; as, to settle a bill. --Abbott.
# {{transitive}}: To plant with inhabitants; to colonize; to people; as, the French first settled Canada; the Puritans settled New England; Plymouth was settled in 1620.
# {{intransitive}}: To become fixed or permanent; to become stationary; to establish one's self or itself; to assume a lasting form, condition, direction, or the like, in place of a temporary or changing state.
#:Quotation:  The wind came about and settled in the west. --[[w:Bacon|Bacon]].
#:Quotation:  Chyle . . . runs through all the intermediate colors until it settles in an intense red. --Arbuthnot.
# {{intransitive}}: To fix one's residence; to establish a dwelling place or home; as, the Saxons who settled in Britain.
# {{intransitive}}: To enter into the married state, or the state of a householder.
#:Quotation:  As people marry now and settle. --Prior.
# {{intransitive}}: To be established in an employment or profession; as, to settle in the practice of law.
# {{intransitive}}: To become firm, dry, and hard, as the ground after the effects of rain or frost have disappeared; as, the roads settled late in the spring.
# {{intransitive}}: To become clear after being turbid or obscure; to clarify by depositing matter held in suspension; as, the weather settled; wine settles by standing.
#:Quotation:  A government, on such occasions, is always thick before it settles. --Addison.
# {{intransitive}}: To sink to the bottom; to fall to the bottom, as dregs of a liquid, or the sediment of a reservoir.
# {{intransitive}}: To sink gradually to a lower level; to subside, as the foundation of a house, etc.
# {{intransitive}}: To become calm; to cease from agitation.
#:Quotation:  Till the fury of his highness settle, Come not before him. --Shak.
# {{intransitive}}: To adjust differences or accounts; to come to an agreement; as, he has settled with his creditors.
# {{intransitive}}, {{obsolete}}: To make a jointure for a wife.
#:Quotation:  He sighs with most success that settles well. --Garth.

===Synonyms===
*[[adjust]]
*[[arrange]]
*[[compose]]
*[[decide]]
*[[determine]]
*[[establish]]
*[[fix]]
*[[regulate]]

===Derived terms===
*[[settle bed]] ({{UK}} a bed convertible into a seat)
*[[settle on or upon]] {{archaic}} to confer upon by permanent grant; to assure to. ''I . . . have settled upon him a good annuity.'' --Addison.
*[[settle the land]] {{obsolete}} {{nautical}} to cause it to sink, or appear lower, by receding from it.

===Related terms===
*[[settlement]]
*[[settler]]

{{webster}}

[[et:settle]]
[[fr:settle]]
[[io:settle]]
[[it:settle]]
[[hu:settle]]
[[fi:settle]]
[[vi:settle]]