{{wikipedia}}

==English==
===Etymology 1===
origin obscure

====Noun====
'''shack'''
# crude, roughly built [[hut]] or [[cabin]]
# {{US}} shiftless fellow; a low, itinerant beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.

=====Translations=====
*Finnish: [[vaja]], [[lato]]
*Spanish: [[choza]] {{f}}

====Verb====
'''to shack'''
# to [[live]] in or with
# to [[shack up]]
# to idle one's time away
# to wander as a vagabond or tramp.

===Etymology 2===
variant of ''[[shake]]''

====Noun====
'''shack'''
# grain to the ground and left after harvest.
# nuts which have fallen to the ground.
# freedom to pasturage in order to feed upon '''shack'''

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1900s=1918<br>1996}}
* '''1918,''' Christobel Mary Hoare Hood, ''The History of an East Anglian Soke'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=OCLC11859773&id=rI0iE-yqyAMC&q=%22right+to+shack%22&prev=http://books.google.com/books%3Flr%3D%26q%3D%2522right%2Bto%2Bshack%2522&pgis=1]
*: [...] first comes the case of tenants with a customary right to shack their sheep and cattle who have overburdened the fields with a larger number of beasts than their tenement entitles them to, or who have allowed their beasts to feed in the field out of '''shack''' time.
* '''1996,''' J M Neeson, ''Commoners'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0521567742&id=2CqhjjiwLtEC&pg=PA76&lpg=PA76&sig=3geUREguU3vTYj_05PtAfzFODDA]
*: The fields were enclosed by Act in 1791, and Tharp gave the cottagers about thirteen acres for their right of '''shack'''.

====Verb====
'''to shack'''
# to shed or fall, as corn or grain at harvest.
# to feed in stubble, or upon waste corn.

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1900s=1918}}
* '''1918,''' Christobel Mary Hoare Hood, ''The History of an East Anglian Soke'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=OCLC11859773&id=rI0iE-yqyAMC&q=%22right+to+shack%22&prev=http://books.google.com/books%3Flr%3D%26q%3D%2522right%2Bto%2Bshack%2522&pgis=1]
*: [...] first comes the case of tenants with a customary right to '''shack''' their sheep and cattle who have overburdened the fields with a larger number of beasts than their tenement entitles them to, or who have allowed their beasts to feed in the field out of shack time.

[[Category:English dialect words]]

[[it:shack]]