==English==

{{rank|down|good|never|100|shall|most|where|those}}

===Etymology===
Old English [[sculan|sceal]], of Germanic origin.

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-shall.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æl|-æl]]

===Auxiliary verb===
'''shall''' (''irregular forms'')

# Used before a verb to indicate the simple future tense, particularly in the first person singular or plural.
#:''I '''shall''' sing in the choir tomorrow''
# Used similarly to indicate determination or obligation, particularly in the second and third persons singular and plural.
#:(''determination''): ''You '''shall''' ''go to the ball!''
#:(''obligation''): ''Citizens '''shall''' provide proof of identity.''
# Used in questions to suggest a possible future action.
#:'''''Shall''' we go out later?''

====Usage notes====
*Historically, '''shall''' is the present tense and '''[[should]]''' is its past tense.
:''You have done that you '''should''' be sorry for.''
:''You have done that you '''shall''' be sorry for.''
*In the past, '''will''' and '''shall''' have been used similarly as auxiliary verbs for the future tense. The simple future tense traditionally uses '''shall''' for the first person ("I" and "we"), and '''will''' for the second and third persons.
:''I '''shall''' go.''
:''You will go.''
*An emphatic future tense, with a sense of '''must''', reverses the two words, using '''will''' for the first person and '''shall''' for the second and third person.
:''I will go.''
:''You '''shall''' go.''

====Translations====

'''indicating the simple future tense'''
{{top}}
*French: '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense''
*:I shall sing tomorrow - ''Je chanterai demain''
*Dutch: [[zullen]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense''
*:I shall sing tomorrow - ''Canterò domani''
{{bottom}}

'''indicating determination or obligation'''
{{top}}
*French: (''indicating determination'') '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense, which can be emphasised using "bien" or a similar adverbial construction''; (''indicating obligation'') [[devoir]], [[être]] [[obliger|obligé]] de
*:You shall go to the ball! - ''Mais tu iras bien au bal!'' or ''Ah oui, tu iras au bal!''
*:Citizens shall provide identity - ''Les citoyens doivent fournir une pièce d'identité'' or ''Les citoyens sont obligés de fournir une pièce d'identité''
{{mid}}
*Italian:  (''indicating determination'') '''''shall''' followed by the infinitive is translated using the future tense, which can be emphasised using "sì che" or a similar adverbial construction''; (''indicating obligation'') [[dovere]], [[essere]] [[obbligare|obbligato]] di
*:You shall go to the ball! - ''Sì che andrai al ballo!''
*:Citizens shall provide identity - ''I cittadini devono fornire identificazione'' or ''I cittadini sono obbligati di fornire identificazione''
{{bottom}}

'''in questions to suggest a possible future action'''
{{top}}
*French: '''shall''' ''followed by the infinitive is translated by'' si ''and the imperfect tense, or, informally, without'' si ''and with the present tense''
*:Shall we go out later? - ''Si nous sortions plus tard?'' or ''Sortons plus tard?''
{{mid}}
*Italian: '''shall''' ''followed by the infinitive is translated by the present tense''
*:Shall we go out later? - ''Sortiamo più tardi?''
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[shalt]]
*[[shan't]]
*[[should]]
*[[will]]

[[it:shall]]
[[la:shall]]
[[ja:shall]]
[[simple:shall]]
[[fi:shall]]
[[vi:shall]]
[[uk:shall]]