==English==

===Etymology===
Middle English [[scharp]], from Old English [[scearp]].  Therefore of [[Germanic]] origin, e.g. it is akin to the [[German]] [[scharf]]. It is also akin to words which have the sense of scraping, e.g. Latin [[scrobis]] '[[ditch]]', Russian skresti 'to [[scrape]]'.

===Pronunciations===
*[[w:General American|GenAm]] /ʃɑɹp/
*[[w:Received Pronunciation|RP]] /ʃɑːp/

===Adjective===
'''sharp''' ({{compare}} [[sharper]], {{super}} [[sharpest]])

#Having the ability to cut easily.
#Intelligent.
#Having the ability to pierce easily.
# {{music}} a note that is played a [[semitone]] higher than usual (denoted by the name of the note followed by the symbol &#9839;).
# {{music}} the scale having a particular sharp note as its [[tonic]]
#: ''The Moonlight Sonata is written in C&#9839; minor (C sharp minor)''
#''Music'' higher-pitched than desired. (''The oboe was an eighth of a tone sharp.'')
#Having an intense flavour. (''sharp cheddar'')
#Intense and sudden. (''a sharp pain'')
#Illegal or dishonest (''sharp practice'')
#Exactly. (''twelve o'clock sharp'')

==== Translations ====
*[[Catalan]]: [[esmolat]] (1), [[llest]] (2), [[punxegut]] (3), [[sostingut]] (4)
*[[Czech]]: [[ostrý]] (1,3), [[vysoký]] (4)
*Dutch: [[scherp]] (1), [[scherpe]] (1), [[scherpzinnig]] (2), [[scherpzinnige]] (2)
*Finnish: [[terävä]] (1-3,8), [[terävä-älyinen]] (2), [[tuikea]] (7), [[kirpeä]] (7), [[kipakka]] (7), [[täsmälleen]] (10), [[tasan]] (10), [[tarkka]] (10)
*French: [[coupant]] {{m}} ([[coupante]] {{f}}) (1), [[intelligent]] {{m}} ([[intelligente]] {{f}}) (2), [[pointu]] {{m}} ([[pointue]] {{f}}) (3), [[dièse]] {{m}} {{f}} (4)
*German: [[scharf]] (1, 3), [[aufgeweckt]] (2), [[scharfsinnig]] (2), [[-is]] (4)
*[[Ido]]: [[akuta]]
*Irish: [[géar]] (1, 3)
*Romanian: [[ascuţit]] (1, 2, 3), [[diez]] (4)
*Russian: [[острый]] (1, 2)
*Slovene: [[oster]] {{m}}, [[ostra]] {{f}}, [[ostro]] {{n}} (1, 3, 7, 8)
*Swedish: [[skarp]] (1), [[skarpsinnig]] (2), [[vass]] (1, 3)
*Spanish: [[afilado]] (1), [[listo]] (2), [[puntiagudo]] (3), [[sostenido]] (4)

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# {{music}} the symbol &#9839;, placed after the name of a note, in the [[key signature]], or before a note on the [[staff]] to indicate that the note is to be played a [[semitone]] higher.
#something which is sharp
#:Place '''sharps''' in a specially marked container for safe disposal.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[kruis]] {{f}}
*German: [[Erhöhungszeichen]] {{n}}

===Anagrams===
*[[harps]]

===See also===
*{{music}} [[accidental]], [[flat]], [[natural]]
*[[card sharp]]

===Derived terms===
[[double sharp]]

[[Category:English adjectives]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:sharp]]
[[io:Sharp]]
[[it:sharp]]
[[pt:Sharp]]
[[fi:sharp]]