==English==
===Noun===
'''sheaf''' (''plural'' [[sheaves]])
#A quantity of the [[stalk]]s and [[ear]]s of [[wheat]], [[rye]], or other [[grain]], [[bound]] together; a [[bundle]] of grain or [[straw]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1593''': O, let me [[teach]] you how to [[knit]] again This [[scatter]]ed [[corn]] into one [[mutual]] [[sheaf]], These [[broken]] [[limbs]] again into one [[body]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Titus Andronicus'', Act V, Scene III, line 70.
#:*''The [[reaper]] fills his [[greedy]] hands, And binds the golden sheaves in [[brittle]] bands.'' Dryden.
#Any [[collection]] of things [[bound]] together; a bundle.
#A bundle of [[arrow]]s sufficient to fill a [[quiver]], or the [[allowance]] of each [[archer]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*''The sheaf of arrows shook and rattled in the case.'' Dryden.
#(''English units'') [[Category:English_units]] A [[quantity]] of arrows, usually [[twenty-four]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''': Arrows were [[anciently]] made of [[reed]]s, afterwards of [[cornel]] [[wood]], and occasionally of every [[species]] of wood: but according to Roger Ascham, [[ash]] was [[best]]; arrows were [[reckoned]] by [[sheaves]], a [[sheaf]] consisted of twenty-four arrows. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 34.
#(Mechanical) A [[sheave]].
===Transitive verb===
'''to sheaf'''
#To [[gather]] and bind into a sheaf; to make into sheaves; as, to sheaf wheat.
===Intransitive verb===
'''to sheaf'''
#To [[collect]] and bind [[cut]] grain, or the like; to make sheaves.
#:'''Quotations'''
#: '''1599''': They that [[reap]] must [[sheaf]] and bind; Then to [[cart]] with Rosalind. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''As You Like It'', Act III, Scene II, line 107.