==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{SAMPA|/SEd/}}
*{{IPA|/ʃɛd/}}
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: /shěd/
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛd|-ɛd]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[sceadan]]'', from Germanic.  Cognate with Dutch [[scheiden]], German [[scheiden]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|sheds|shedding|shed}}

# {{cattag|transitive|archaic}} To [[part]] or [[divide]].
#: ''A metal comb '''shed''' her golden hair.''
# {{cattag|transitive|archaic}} To [[pour]]; to make flow.
#: ''I have '''shed''' the blood of our enemies.''
# {{transitive}} To allow to [[flow]] or fall.
#: ''I didn't '''shed''' many tears when he left me.''
# {{transitive}} To [[radiate]], [[cast]], give off
#: ''Can you '''shed''' any light on this problem?''
# {{cattag|transitive|intransitive}} To cast off, to let fall, be divested of.
#: ''When we found the snake, it was in the process of '''shedding''' its skin.''

=====Translations=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[vergieten]] (2), [[laten vallen]] (1), [[afwerpen]] (1), [[storten]], [[verspreiden]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[verter]] (1)
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[scead|scēad]], from Germanic.  Cognate with German [[Scheitel]] ‘hair parting’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# ''(obsolete)'' A distinction or dividing-line.
# ''(obsolete)'' A parting in the hair.
# ''(obsolete)'' An area of land as distinguished from those around it.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[watershed]]

===Etymology 3===
Variant of ''[[shade]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

#A small [[wooden]] [[construction]] to [[store]] [[tool]]s.
#(''British, derogatory, informal'') An [[automobile]] which is old, worn-out, slow, or otherwise of poor quality.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[loods]], [[schuur]]
*Finnish: [[liiteri]], [[vaja]], [[katos]]
*German: [[Schuppen]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[barracão]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[cobertizo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[skjul]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
{{top2}}
*[[hut]]
*[[outbuilding]]
{{mid2}}
*[[shack]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[et:shed]]
[[fr:shed]]
[[io:shed]]
[[it:shed]]
[[hu:shed]]
[[fi:shed]]
[[ta:shed]]
[[uk:shed]]
[[zh:shed]]