{{See|she'll}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*shĕl, /ʃεl/, /<tt>SEl</tt>/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[hard]] [[outside]] [[cover]]ing, as of a [[fruit]] or an [[animal]].
# The covering, or outside part, of a [[nut]]; as, a [[hazelnut]] shell.
# A [[pod]].
# The hard covering of an [[egg]].
# The hard [[calcareous]] or [[chitinous]] external covering of [[mollusk]]s, [[crustacean]]s, and some other [[invertebrate]]s. In some mollusks, as the [[cuttlefish]]es, it is internal, or concealed by the [[mantle]]. Also, the hard covering of some vertebrates, as the [[armadillo]], the [[tortoise]], and the like.
# Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering.
# A [[hollow]] [[projectile]], of various shapes, adapted for a [[mortar]] or a [[cannon]], and containing an [[explosive]] [[substance]], [[ignite]]d with a [[fuze]] or by [[percussion]], by means of which the projectile is [[burst]] and its [[fragment]]s [[scatter]]ed.  [The plural of which is 'shell'.] See [[Bomb]].
# The [[case]] which holds the [[powder]], or [[charge]] of powder and [[shot]], used with [[breechloading]] [[small arms]]. [The plural of which is 'shell'.]
# Any slight hollow structure; a [[framework]], or [[exterior]] structure, regarded as not complete or filled in; as, the shell of a house.
# A [[coarse]] kind of [[coffin]]; also, a thin interior coffin inclosed in a more [[substantial]] one.
# {{music}} An [[instrument]] of music, as a [[lyre]], -- the first lyre having been made, it is said, by drawing [[string]]s over a tortoise shell.
# An [[engrave]]d [[copper]] [[roller]] used in [[print]] [[work]]s.
# The [[husk]]s of [[cacao]] [[seed]]s, a [[decoction]] of which is often used as a substitute for [[chocolate]], [[cocoa]], etc.
# The outer [[frame]] or case of a [[block]] within which the [[sheave]]s revolve.
# {{nautical}} A light boat the frame of which is covered with thin wood or with paper; as, a racing shell.
# A drum shell; the usually wooden, [[cylindrical]] [[acoustic]] chamber, with or without rims added for tuning and [[attach]]ing drum heads.

====Translations====
'''A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schil]] {{f}}, [[schaal]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[skal]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''The covering, or outside part, of a nut'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schaal]] {{f}}, [[omhulsel]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[skal]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''A pod'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''The hard covering of an egg'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schaal]] ''f'', [[eierschaal]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[äggskal]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''The hard calcareous or chitinous external covering of mollusks, crustaceans, and some other invertebrates'''
{{top}}
*French: [[coquillage]]
*Dutch: [[schelp]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering'''
{{top}}
*French: [[coquillage]]
*Dutch: [[schelp]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''A hollow projectile'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[obus]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''The case which holds the powder, or charge of powder'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Any slight hollow structure; a framework, or exterior structure'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[skal]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''A coarse kind of coffin'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''An instrument of music, as a lyre'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[lier]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''An engraved copper roller'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''The husks of cacao seeds'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''The outer frame or case of a block within which the sheaves revolve'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''A light boat the frame of which is covered with thin wood or with paper; as, a racing shell'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''A drum shell; the usually wooden, cylindrical acoustic chamber'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|shell||}}

# To remove the outer covering or shell of something . See [[sheller]].
# To [[bombard]], to fire projectiles at.

====Translations====
'''to remove the outer covering or shell of something'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schillen]] (fruit), [[kraken]] (nut), [[pellen]] (fruit or crustacean)
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[skala]]
{{bottom}}

'''to bombard, to fire projectiles at'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bombarderen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[clamshell]]
*[[eggshell]]
*[[seashell]]
*[[shellfish]]
*[[shell suit]]
*[[tortoiseshell]]

===Anagrams===
*[[hells]]

[[fr:shell]]
[[io:shell]]
[[it:shell]]
[[ru:shell]]
[[fi:shell]]
[[zh:shell]]