{{cleanup-date|February 2006}}
{{context}} 
{{wikify-date|February 2006}} 

{{Move to Wiktionary}}


'''Shemaiah''' is a Hebrew name meaning "whom God heard". In the Hebrew [[Bible]] / Christian Old Testament the name relates to several people: 


#A prophet in the reign of [[Rehoboam]] (1 Kings 12:22-24).
#Neh. 3:29.
#A Simeonite (1 Chr. 4:37).
#A priest (Neh. 12:42).
#A [[Levite]] (1 Chr. 9:16).
#1 Chr. 9:14; Neh. 11:15.
#A Levite in the time of David, who with 200 of his brethren took part in the bringing up of the ark from Obed-edom to [[Hebron]] (1 Chr. 15:8).
#A Levite (1 Chr. 24:6).
#The eldest son of Obed-edom (1 Chr. 26:4-8).
#A Levite (2 Chr. 29:14).
#A false prophet who hindered the rebuilding of [[Jerusalem]] (Neh. 6:10).
#A prince of [[tribe of Judah|Judah]] who assisted at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem (Neh. 12:34-36).
#A false prophet who opposed [[Jeremiah (prophet)|Jeremiah]] (Jer. 29:24-32).
#One of the Levites whom [[Jehoshaphat]] appointed to teach the law (2 Chr. 17:8).
#A Levite appointed to "distribute the oblations of the Lord" (2 Chr. 31:15).
#A Levite (2 Chr. 35:9).
#The father of [[Urijah]] the prophet (Jer. 26:20).
#The father of a prince in the reign of [[Jehoiakim]] (Jer. 36:12).
#A rabbinic sage who was leader of the Pharisee's in 1st century BC. See [[Sh'maya (Mishnah)]]

== Written works ==
The second book of [[Books of Chronicles|Chronicles]] refers to a "Book of the Prophet Shemaiah". No existing work has been identified with this title (See [[Non-canonical books referenced in the Bible]]).

{{eastons}}

[[Category:Tanakh people]]
{{HeBible-stub}}