{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Proper noun===
'''[[Shetland]] [[Islands]]'''also known as 'Shetland'
# A group of [[island]]s of [[Scotland]], roughly north-east of the [[Orkney Islands]].
# The region of Scotland comprising these islands.
# Islands famous for Shetland Ponies, Shetland Sheep
and lace shawl (knitted but fits through a wedding band)
Island group once belonging to Norway gifted as dowry of Queen Margaret of Scotland.  Now considered by most Shetlanders as part of Britain , the most important part. It's independance is greater because it's population only considers Britain when travelling or paying tax.  E.C. much more important as they give better grants.
Oil industry brought prosperity to many from the 1970's now slowing down.
Generaly treeless landscape, wild weather mostly wind with some rain every day. Snow on ocassions in Jan. rarely lies as the sea makes freezes shortlived.
Winter daylight Aprox 6.5 hrs  Summer daylight approx 20 hrs +4 hrs dusk.
Best times to visit May -June temp not high but sun shines.
  January for Up Helly-A possibly 3rd sat in Jan for Lerwick the main town , population over 11,000. Other up helly-a's occur around the islands at district centers. Book accomodation for up helly-a as it is a wicked dressing up and dancing and drinking and staying up all night fest.... competition. The winners are determined in advance, The Jarl Squad who might after a couple of days slip into a shift system.Up helly-a is a magnet for those who should know better and their children. Those who do know better start early and get the kids home before it is too late.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*French: [[Shetland]], [[Zetland]] (1)
*Italian: le [[Shetland]] ''f pl'', le [[isole]] Shetland ''f pl'' (1)
{{mid}}
*[[Manx]]: [[Sheltyn]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Islands]]