{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#(''Armor'') [[Category:Armor]] A broad piece of defensive [[armor]], carried on the [[arm]], formerly in general use in [[war]], for the [[protection]] of the [[body]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1599''': [[Knock]]s go and come; God's [[vassal]]s drop and die; And [[sword]] and [[shield]], In [[bloody]] field, [[Doth]] win [[immortal]] [[fame]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry V'', Act III, Scene II, line 8.
#:*'''1786''': The [[shield]]s used by our [[Norman]] [[ancestor]]s were the [[triangular]] or [[heater]] [[shield]], the [[target]] or [[buckler]], the [[roundel]] or [[rondache]], and the [[pavais]], [[pavache]], or [[tallevas]]. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 22.
# Anything which [[protect]]s or [[defend]]s; [[defense]]; [[shelter]]; [[protection]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1592''': Go [[muster]] men. My [[counsel]] is my [[shield]]; We must be [[brief]] when [[traitor]]s [[brave]] the [[field]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Richard III'', Act 4, Scene 3, line 56.
# Figuratively, one who protects or defends.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1611''': Fear not, Abram: I am [[thy]] [[shield]], and thy [[exceeding]] great reward. ''The Holy Bible'', King James Version, Genesis 15:1.
#{{botany}} In [[lichen]]s, a hardened cup or disk surrounded by a rim and containing the [[fructification]], or [[asci]].
#{{heraldry}} The [[escutcheon]] or [[field]] on which are placed the [[bearing]]s in [[coats of arms]]. 
#{{mining}} (''Mining'') A [[framework]] used to protect workmen in making an [[adit]] under ground, and capable of being pushed along as [[excavation]] progresses.
# A [[spot]] resembling, or having the [[form]] of a shield.
#:''Bespotted as with shields of red and black.'' Spenser.
#{{obsolete}} A [[coin]], the old French [[crown]], or [[écu]], having on one side the figure of a shield.
#{{scifi}} An field of energy which protects or defends.
#{{colloquial}} A [[police]] [[badge]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The chief put something in his hand and Bosch looked down to see the gold detective's '''shield'''. [http://www.michaelconnelly.com/Book_Collection/Closers/ClosersExcerpt/closersexcerpt.html]
#(''Transportation'') A sign or symbol, usually containing numbers and sometimes letters, identifying a highway route.
====Etymology====
Old English ''[[scield]]''

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːld|-iːld]]

====Translations====
'''armor'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[mburojë]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[skoed]] {{m}}
*Catalan: [[escut]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[štit]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[skjold]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[schild]] {{n}}
*French: [[écu]] {{m}}
*German: [[Schild]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[pajzs]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[scudo]] {{m}}
*Latin: [[scutus]] {{m}}
*Norwegian: [[skjold]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[tarcza]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[scut]] ''m''
*Russian: [[щит]] /ščit/ {{m}}
*Slovene: [[ščit]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[escudo]] {{m}}
*Swahili: [[ngao]] ''(noun 9/10)''
{{bottom}}

'''anything which protects or defends'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bescherming]] {{f}}, [[scherm]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[щит]] /ščit/ {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''figuratively, one who protects or defends'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[beschermer]] {{m}}, [[beschermster]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''heraldry'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[wapenschild]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''mining'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a spot resembling, or having the form of a shield.'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''obsolete: a coin, the old French crown, or écu'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''sci fi: an field of energy which protects or defends'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schild]] {{n}}, [[scherm]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[щит]] /ščit/ {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''colloquial: a [[police]] [[badge]]'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[badge]] {{m}}, [[penning]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''transportation: a sign or symbol, usually containing numbers and sometimes letters, identifying a highway route.'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[wegwijzer]] {{m}}, [[plaat]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To protect, to defend.
#*'''2004:''' [[w: Chris Wallace (journalist)|Chris Wallace]], ''Character:  Profiles in Presidential Courage''
#*:Shots rang out and a 15-year-old boy, '''shielding''' a woman from the line of fire, was killed.
# (''Electricity'') to protect from the influence of
====Etymology====
Old English ''[[scieldan]]''

===See also===
* Shield (1) types: [[buckler]], [[pavache]], [[pavais]], [[rondache]], [[roundel]], [[tallevas]], [[targe]], and [[target]].

====Translations====
'''to protect, to defend'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afschermen]], [[beschermen]], [[verdedigen]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[zaščititi]]/[[ščititi]]
{{bottom}}

'''electricity: to protect from the influence of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afschermen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[el:shield]]
[[fr:shield]]
[[io:shield]]
[[hu:shield]]
[[ja:shield]]
[[ru:shield]]
[[ta:shield]]
[[vi:shield]]
[[zh:shield]]