==English==

{{rank|shown|escape|Mr|926|shot|warm|sufficient|conduct}}

===Pronunciation===
*British English [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'SOt/
*British English [[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'ʃɒt/
*US English [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'Sat/
*US English [[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'ʃat/
*{{audio|en-us-shot.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒt|-ɒt]]
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[sceot|scēot]]'', from Germanic ''*skot-''.  Cognate with German ''[[Schoß]]''.  Compare ''[[scot]]''.

===Adjective===
'''shot'''

# {{colloquial}} Worn out.
#: ''The real axle will have to be replaced.  It's '''shot'''.''
# (Of material, especially silk) Woven from [[warp]] and [[weft]] strands of different colours, resulting in an iridescent appearance.
# tired, weary
#: ''I have to go to bed now, I'm '''shot'''.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Swedish: [[utsliten]]
{{bottom}}

====Interjection====
'''shot'''

# {{colloquial}} (South African) Thank you.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The result of launching a [[projectile]] or [[bullet]].
#: ''The '''shot''' was wide of the mark.''
# {{sports}} The act of launching a ball or similar object toward a goal.
#: ''They took the lead on a last-minute '''shot'''.''
# The heavy iron ball used for the [[shot put]].
# {{uncountable}} Small metal balls used as ammunition.
# A chance.
#: ''I'd like just one more '''shot''' at winning this game.''
# {{finance}} A [[payment]] (of a [[bill]]), a [[scot]] or [[shout]].
# A measure of alcohol, usually spirits, as taken either from a shot-glass or directly from the bottle.  About 44 millilitres; 1.5 ounces.  "pony shot"= 30 millilitres; 1 fluid ounce

====Translations====
'''launching of a projectile'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schot]] {{n}}
*German: [[Schuss]]
*Italian: [[sparo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[strzał]] {{m}}
*[[Sicilian]]: [[scupittata]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[skott]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''launching of a ball or similar object toward a goal'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schot]] {{n}}
*Italian: [[tiro]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[strzał]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[skott]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''heavy iron ball used for the shot put'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kogel]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''small metal balls used as ammunition'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[hagel]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hagel]], [[skrot]]
{{bottom}}

'''a chance'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[opportunità]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[chansning]] {{c}}, [[försök]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''payment (of a bill), scot or shout'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''measure of alcohol'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[shot#Swedish|shot]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top}}
*[[big shot]]
*[[buckshot]]
*[[cow shot]]
*[[long shot]]
{{mid}}
*[[shot-glass]]
*[[shotgun]]
*[[shot put]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''shot'''

# past tense of to [[shoot]]
# past participle of to shoot

====Translations====
'''past tense'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schoot]] {{s}}, [[schoten]] {{p}}
*Swedish: [[sköt]]
{{bottom}}

'''past participle'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[geschoten]]
*Swedish: [[skjutit]], [[skjuten]]
{{bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[hots]]
*[[host]]

[[et:shot]]
[[fa:shot]]
[[fr:shot]]
[[io:shot]]
[[it:shot]]
[[hu:shot]]
[[pt:shot]]
[[zh:shot]]