==English==

{{rank|now|then|A|80|should|can|made|did}}

====Etymology====
Old English ''sceolde'', preterite form of [[sculan]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ʃʊd/}}, {{SAMPA|/SUd/}}
*{{audio|en-us-should.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʊd|-ʊd]]

=== Auxiliary verb ===
'''should'''

# The speaker&mdash;but not necessarily the [[subject]] of the sentence&mdash;[[intend]]s for the subject to execute the sentence [[predicate]].
#: Contrast with stronger auxiliary verb ''[[must]]'', which indicates that the subject is [[require]]d to execute the predicate.
# The [[subject]] of the subject of the sentence is [[likely]] to execute the sentence [[predicate]].
#: Contrast with stronger auxiliary verb ''[[must]]'', which indicates that the subject certainly will execute the predicate.
#[[if|If]]; [[in case]] of.
#:'''''Should''' you need extra blankets, you'll find them in the closet.''

====Synonyms====
*[[ought to]]

====Antonyms====
*[[shouldn't]]

====Related terms====
*[[should've]]where to replace it in time. 
Everyone Oughtta know this by now. But Should have is going back to the original Occurance in time and putting in place of that occurance, what you think would have made it better, or complete, or whole, or whatever your outcome. So Fallowing the lines of "Reality" Should've doesn't really exist. Because, the "Should" that actually occured in time is the only "should" and would only messup things if you where to go back and replace The original "should" meaning point of occurance, with your "should" point of occurance, then life would have a different flow to it and it would take away from the coarse of time that has happened from it.
         Ever Seen The Butterfly Effect with Ashton Kutcher and Amy Smart.
  Perfect Example of Should have.  In his mind he is determining I should have did different, so he goes back to the "should" and tries to replace the "Should" point of occurance, and make his "Should Have Been" ,so to speak the new reality, and It doesn't seem to work that way, Things asways get screwed up.

====Translations====
*Danish: [[skulle]], [[burde]]
*Dutch: [[zou]], [[zouden]]
*German: [[sollte]]
*Spanish: [[deber]] (1, 2), [[si]] (3)

[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[fr:should]]
[[io:should]]
[[it:should]]
[[la:should]]
[[hu:should]]
[[ja:should]]
[[simple:should]]
[[vi:should]]