<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->{{#ifeq:{{FULLPAGENAME}}|Special:Undelete| |{{#if:{{{nosubst|}}}|<div style="display:none;">}} {{#ifeq:{{NAMESPACE}}||{{#switch:{{NAMESPACE}}|= |#default={{error:wrong namespace}}<div style="display:none;">}}|{{error:not substituted|AFD}}<div style="display:none;">}}}} {{#if:{{{nosubst|}}}|</div></div>}}
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="afd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]][[Template:Afd|.]]'''<br />
Please share your thoughts on the matter at '''[[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/{{{1|Shuckin' and jivin'}}}|this article's entry]]''' on the Articles for deletion page.<br />
Feel free to edit the article, but the article must not be blanked, and this notice must not be removed, until the discussion is closed. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to deletion|guide to deletion]].<br/>

''<small>[[Wikipedia:Maintenance|Maintenance]] Use Only (for help, [[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion#How to list pages for deletion|click here]]): [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?action=edit&preload=Template:Afd2+starter&editintro=Template:Afd3+starter&title=Wikipedia:Articles+for+deletion/{{PAGENAMEE}} Create subpage] (content preloaded) &bull; [{{SERVER}}{{localurl:Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Log/{{CURRENTYEAR}}_{{CURRENTMONTHNAMEGEN}}_{{CURRENTDAY}}|action=edit}} Edit log] - add: &#123;{subst:afd3|pg={{PAGENAME}}}}
</small></div>
{{{category|[[Category:Articles for deletion]]}}}
<!-- If this message links to an already-closed AfD discussion, please remove it and use Template:Afdx instead -->
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->
{{expert}}
'''Shuckin' and Jivin' (or Shucking and Jiving)''' is a slang term primarily used by [[African American]]s.  It refers to the speech and behavioral mechanisms adopted in the presence of an authority figure <ref>Linn, Michael D. "Black Rhetorical Patterns and the Teaching of Composition". ''College Composition and Communication''. Vol. 26, No. 2. (May 1975). p. 150</ref>. Shuckin' and jivin' usually involves clever lies and impromptu storytelling, used to one-up an opponent or avoid punishment <ref> [http://maxweber.hunter.cuny.edu/pub/eres/EDSPC715_MCINTYRE/street2.html http://maxweber.hunter.cuny.edu/pub/eres/EDSPC715_MCINTYRE/street2.html]. Retrieved 1 September 2006.</ref>.  It is believed to have originated in the era of [[History of slavery in the United States|slavery]] <ref>ibid.</ref>.

Thomas Kochman provides an example:
::One black gang member was coming down the stairway from the club room with seven guns on him and encountered some policemen coming up the same stairs. If they stopped and frisked him, he and others would have been arrested. A paraphrase of his shuck follows: 'Man, I gotta get away from up there. There's gonna be some trouble and I don't want no part of it.' The shuck worked on the minds of the policemen. It anticipated their questions as to why he was leaving the clubroom and why he would be in such a hurry. He also gave them a reason for wanting to go up fast. <ref>Kochman, Thomas. "Black American Speech Events and a Language Program for the Classroom". ''Functions of Language in the Classroom''. ed. Courtney B. Cazden, et al. (New York: Teacher's College Press, 1972). p. 250.</ref>

''Shuckin' and Jivin': Folklore from Contemporary Black Americans'' (ISBN 0253202655) is the name of a book written by Daryl Cumber Dance in [[1981]].  In [[1972]], the [[Johnny Lewis Quartet]] record a [[soul jazz]] [[LP]] called ''Shuckin' 'N Jivin' '' <ref>[http://www.ubiquityrecords.com/lh029.html http://www.ubiquityrecords.com/lh029.html]. Retrieved 1 September 2006.]</ref>.  



==Notes==
<references/>

   
[[Category:English phrases]]
[[Category:African American culture]]