''See also:'' '''[[Si]], [[sî]], [[sí]]'''
==Catalan==
===Etymology===
Latin ''si'' ([[if]]).

===Conjunction===
'''si'''

#[[if]]

===See also===
#[[sí#Spanish|sí]]
[[Category:ca:Conjunctioms]]

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''si''' (''plural:'' [[si's]], ''diminutive:'' [[si'tje]])

# musical note; [[ti]]

----

==Esperanto==
===Reflexive pronoun===
'''si'''
# [[himself]], [[herself]]
[[Category:Esperanto pronouns]]
[[Category:Esperanto BRO1]]

----

==Ewe==
===Verb===
'''si'''

# [[escape]].
[[Category:Ewe language]]

----

==French==
===Etymology 1===
Latin ''si'' ([[if]]).

===Conjunction===
'''si'''

#[[if]]

===Etymology 2===
Latin ''sic'' ([[so]], [[thus]]).

===Interjection===
#[[yes]] (''used to contradict a negative statement'') (''often followed by'' '''I do''', '''he is''', ''etc., in English to indicate contradiction rather than affirmation'').
#:''Tu ne m’aimes pas, n’est-ce pas? — Si!'' — You don’t like me, do you? — Yes, I do!

[[Category:French conjunctions]]
[[Category:French interjections]]

----

==Interlingua==
===Adverb===
'''si'''

#[[yes]]

[[Category:Interlingua language]]

----

==Italian==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[se]]'' (reflexive third-person pronoun: him-, her-, it-, themselves).

===Indefinite pronoun===
'''si'''

#[[one]], [[you]], [[we]], [[they]], [[people]]
#:'''Note: In this sense,''' ''si'' '''is often translated using the passive in English.'''
#:Examples:
#::*''Non si deve parlare così'' (One/You/We/They/People shouldn’t speak like that)
#::*''Si parla italiano qui'' (Italian is spoken here ''or'' One/You/We/They/People speak(s) Italian here)

===Reflexive pronoun===
'''si'''

# (''reflexive'') [[oneself]], [[himself]], [[herself]], [[itself]], [[themselves]]; (''reciprocal'') [[each other]], [[one another]].
#:Examples:
#::*''Giovanni si è fatto male'' (Giovanni has hurt himself)
#::*''Carlo e Laura si amano'' (Carlo and Laura love each other)
#:'''Note: With some verbs,''' ''si'' '''is not translated in English.'''
#:Examples:
#::*''Marco si è rotto il braccio'' (Marco has broken his arm)
#::*''Si è svegliata alle nove'' (She woke up at nine)

===Pronoun===
'''si'''

#(''the so-called'' '''[[si passivante]]''', ''used to form the passive voice of a verb'') [[it]] (''but also see note below'')
#:Example: ''Si dice che Maria voleva uccidere Giovanni'' (It is said that Maria wanted to kill Giovanni).
#:'''Note: In this sense,''' ''verb'' + ''si'' '''is often translated as''' ''become'' '''or''' ''get'' + ''past participle'' '''in English'''.
#:Examples:
#::*''Ci vuole un po’ di tempo per abituarsi'' (It takes a while to become accustomed)
#::*''A Luca piace ubriacarsi'' (Luca likes to get drunk)

====Note====
*When ''si'' is part of an infinitive, it can be placed before it as a separate word, but more often it is attached to the end. In this case, the final -e of the infinitive is dropped, or, in the case of infinitives ending in -rre, the final -re is dropped. Examples: ''amare'' + ''si'' = ''amarsi''; ''ridurre'' + ''si'' = ''ridursi''.

===See also===
# [[sì#Italian|sì]]

[[Category:Italian pronouns]]

----

==Latin==
===Conjunction===
''si''

#[[if]], [[supposing]] that

----

==Slovak==
===Verb form===
'''[[byť#Slovak|byť]]''' (second-person singular: '''si''')

#(you) [[are]], (thou) [[art]]

===Personal pronoun===
'''si''' ''or'' '''[[sebe#Slovak|sebe]]'''

====Usage notes====
*Replaces the the [[dative]] of a personal pronoun when the [[subject]] is of the same [[person]] as the dative [[object]]. Roughly comparable with ''to oneself'' or ''for oneself''.
:'''Kupujem ''si'' topánky.''' — ''I am buying myself shoes.''
:'''Komu kupuješ topánky? Sebe.''' — ''Whom are you buying the shoes for? Myself.''

[[Category:Slovak verbs]]
[[Category:Slovak pronouns]]

----

==Spanish==
===Etymology===
Latin ''si'' ([[if]]).

===Conjunction===
'''si'''

#[[if]]

[[Category:Spanish conjunctions]]

----

==[[Volapük]]==
===Interjection===
'''si'''

#[[yes]]

[[Category:Volapük language]]

[[ca:Si]]
[[et:Si]]
[[es:si]]
[[fr:si]]
[[it:si]]
[[la:Si]]
[[hu:si]]
[[ja:si]]
[[no:Si]]
[[pl:si]]
[[pt:Si]]
[[fi:si]]
[[uk:Si]]
[[zh:Si]]