*'''Chemical element''': '''[[Ag]]''' (Atomic Number: 47)
**Previous: [[Palladium|Pd]]
**Next: [[Cadmium|Cd]]

----

==English==
===Etymology===
From Middle English, from Old English [[siolfor]], [[seolfor]].
===Noun===
'''silver'''

# A lustrous, white metallic [[element]], [[atomic number]] 47, [[atomic weight]] 107.87, symbol Ag.
# a coin made from silver, or supposedly so.
# tableware, or any item made from silver (or white metal).
# a shiny gray/grey color.

==== Translations ====
*Afrikaans: [[silwer]]
*Albanian: [[argjent]]
*Arabic: [[فضة]]
*Armenian: (asime)
*[[Basque]]: [[zilarra]]
*Belarusian: [[Серабро]]
*Bosnian: [[srebro]]
*[[Breton]]: [[arc'hant]] ''m'' (1)
*Bulgarian: [[сребро]] ''n'' (1)
*[[Catalan]]: [[plata]] ''f'', [[argent]] ''m''
*Chinese Characters: [[銀]]
*Chinese: [[銀]]
*[[Cornish]]: [[arhans]]
*Croatian: [[srebro]]
*Czech: [[stříbro]]
*Danish: [[sølv]]
*Dutch: [[zilver]] ''n'' (1), [[zilverwerk]] ''n'' (3)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[arĝento]]
*Estonian: [[hõbe]]
*[[Faroese]]: [[silvur]]
*Finnish: [[hopea]]
*French: [[argent]] ''m'' (1)
*[[Frisian]]: [[sulver]]
*[[Friulian]]: [[arint]]
*[[Galician]]: [[prata]]
*Georgian: [[ვერცxლი]]
*German: [[Silber]] ''n''
*Greek (modern): [[Αργυρος]]
*[[Guarani]]: [[itatĩ]]
*Hebrew: [[כסף|כֶּסֶף]]
*Hungarian: [[ezüst]]
*Icelandic: [[silfur]]
*Indonesian: [[perak]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[argento]] (1); ([[moneta]] de) [[argento]] (2); [[argenteria]] (3)
*{{ga}}: [[airgead]]
*Italian: [[argento]] ''m'' (1)
*Japanese: [[銀]] (ぎん, gin)
*[[Kashmiri]]: [[strzébro]]
*Kazakh: [[Кüмис]]
*Latin: [[argentum]]
*Latvian: [[sudrabs]]
*Lithuanian: [[sidabras]]
*[[Luxembourgish]]: [[sëlwer]]
*Macedonian: [[Сребро]]
*Malay: [[argentum,]]
*Maltese: [[fidda]]
*[[Manx]]: [[argid]]
*Mongolian: [[Мөнгө]]
*Norwegian: [[sølv]]
*Polish: [[srebro]]
*Portuguese: [[prata]] ''f'' (1); ([[moeda]] ''f'' de) [[prata]] ''f'' (2); [[prataria]] ''f'' (3)
*Romanian: [[argint]] ''n'' (1); [[argint]] ''m'' (2); [[argint&#259;rie]] ''f''
*Russian: [[серебро]] (serebro)
*[[Scottish Gaelic]]: [[airgead]]
*Serbian: [[Сребро]]
*Slovak: [[striebro]] ''n'' (1)
*Slovenian: [[srebro]]
*Spanish: [[plata]] ''f''
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[itatinga]]
*Swedish: silver
*Tajik: [[nukra]]
*Thai: [[เงิน]]
*Turkish: [[gümüş]]
*Ukrainian: [[Срiбло]]
*Uzbek: [[Кумуш]]
*Vietnamese: [[bạc]]
*Welsh: [[arian]]

====External links====
*[[w:en:silver|Wikipedia article on silver]]
*For etymology and more information refer to:
http://elements.vanderkrogt.net/elem/ag.html
(A lot of the translations were taken from that site with permission from the author)

===Adjective===
'''silver'''

# Silvery: Color like the metal. Shiny grey.

<div style="background-color:#C0C0C0; width:100px; height:25px;text-align:center">&nbsp;</div>silver color

====Translations====
* [[Breton]]: [[arc'hant]]
* Bulgarian: [[сребърен]] ''m'', сребърна ''f'', сребърно ''n'', сребърни ''pl''
* [[Catalan]]: [[platejat]] ''m'', [[platejada]] ''f'', [[argentat]] ''m'', [[argentada]] ''f''
* Danish: [[sølvfarvet]]
* Dutch: [[zilverkleurig]]
* [[Esperanto]]: [[arĝentkolora]]
* Finnish: [[hopeanvärinen]]
* French: [[argenté]]
* German: [[silbern]], [[silberfarbig]]
* Hebrew: [[כסף|כֶּסֶף]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[argentee]], [[argentin]]
* Italian: [[argento]]
* Japanese: [[銀色]] (ぎんいろ, gin-iro)
* Polish: [[srebrny]] ''m'', [[srebrna]] ''f''
* Portuguese: [[prata]] ''m'' & ''f''; [[prateado]] ''m'', prateada ''f''; [[argênteo]] ''m'', argêntea ''f''; [[argentino]] ''m'', argentina ''f''
* Romanian: [[argintiu]] ''m'', [[argintie]] ''f'', [[argintii]] ''m & f pl''
* Russian: [[серебряный]]
* Slovak: [[striebristý]] ''m'', [[striebristá]] ''f'', [[striebristé]] ''n''

===Adjective===
'''silver'''

#Made from silver.
#Made from white metal.
#Shiny grey coloured.

==== Translations ====
*Finnish: [[hopeinen]] (1, 3), [[valkoinen]] (2) <!-- ?? -->, [[hopeanvärinen]] (3)
*Slovak: [[strieborný]] ''m'', [[strieborná]] ''f'', [[strieborné]] ''n'' (1)

===Derived terms===
*[[silverfish]]
*[[silver fox]]
*[[silversmith]]
*[[silver surfer]]
*[[silverware]]
*[[silvery]]

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:English colors]]
[[Category:English elements]]
[[pl:silver]]