'''Skin''' (Pronounced: ''skihn'')<br>

===Noun===
'''skin'''
:#The outer covering of living [[tissue]] over the [[bones]], [[blood]] and internal [[organs]] of a person. ("He is so disgusting he makes my ''skin'' crawl.")
:#A covering over a [[liquid]] (see also [[film]]). ("In order to get to the rest of the [[paint]] in the can, you'll have to remove the ''skin'' floating on top of it.")
:#A very small amount of margin for error, or small likelihood of success.  ("We'll probably just make it by the ''skin'' of our teeth.")
:#A [[pornographic]] or [[adult movie]].  ("It's a ''skin'' flick.")
:#A replacement image for the [[graphical user interface]] of a [[computer program]].  ("You can use this ''skin'' to change how the [[browser]] looks.")

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[iho]] (1), [[kalvo]] (2)

===Verb===
'''to skin'''
:#To injure or damage the skin. [Definition 1 above.]  ("He fell off his [[bike]] onto the [[concrete]] sidewalk, it made him ''skin'' his knee.")  Sometimes used in plural.  ("He fell off his bike and ''skinned'' his knee on the [[sidewalk]].")
:#To use a replacement image for the [[graphical user interface]] of a computer program.  ("Can I ''skin'' the [[program]] to put the picture of my cat on it?")
:#To remove the fur of an animal.  ("There is more than one way to ''skin'' a cat.")
:#(Slang) To shake [[hands]], or to smack or [[clap]] one's hand on someone else's hand.  ("Give me some ''skin'', brother.")
:#(Slang) To expose the [[legs]] (especially the [[thigh]]) or other intimate areas of the body.  ("Use a more revealling dress, show some ''skin''.")

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[kuoria]] (1), [[nylkeä]] (3), [[kyniä]] (3)