==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[skull fuck]]
*[[skullfuck]]
===Etymology===
'''[[skull]]''' + '''[[fuck]]'''
===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# (''vulgar slang'') to actively [[penetrate]] someone's mouth; to have vigorous [[oral sex]]
#*'''2003,''' Guy Willard, ''Suit of Lights''
#*:I reached down and clasped the sides of his head. “I’m gonna '''skull-fuck''' you, faggot.” I began pumping myself into his mouth, ...
# (''vulgar slang'') to [[penetrate]] someone's [[eye socket]]
#*'''2002,''' David R. Williams, ''Killer Asylum''
#*:“Gonna '''skullfuck''' ya bitch!” ... “Gonna ream yer sockets pig. With your eyes still in ‘em. Last thing your gonna see is my shaft coming at ya.”
#*'''2003,''' [[w:Robert Rodriguez|Robert Rodriguez]], ''Once Upon a Time in Mexico'' (film)
#*:Sands: You know that withholding vital information from a federal officer is a serious offence, especially when that officer has paid handsomely for it, and wouldn't think twice about ripping that patch off your eyehole and '''skull-fucking''' you to death.
#*'''2005,''' J.P. Befumo, ''Ariadne's Clew''
#*:One more word out of that foul nigger mouth of yours, and I’ll tear out your eyes and '''skull fuck''' you.
#*'''2000,''' [[w:David Twohy|David Twohy]], ''Pitch Black'' (film)
#*:Johns: Maybe to take what you got. Maybe to work your nerves. Or maybe he’ll just come back and '''skull-fuck''' you in your sleep.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# an instance of skull-fucking
[[Category:English verbs]]
[[Category:English nouns]]