{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# {{uncountable}} a fine-grained homogeneous [[sedimentary]] [[rock]] composed of [[clay]] or volcanic ash which has been metamorphosed so that it cleaves easily into thin layers.
# {{uncountable}} The [[bluish]]-[[grey]]/[[gray]] [[colour]]/[[color]] of most slate.
#:<table><tr><td>slate colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#708090" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
# {{countable}} A sheet of slate for writing on with [[chalk]].
# {{countable}} A tile made of slate.
# {{countable}} (''figurative'') A record of [[money]] owed.
#:''Put it on my slate - I'll pay you next week.''
# {{countable}} A list of affiliated [[candidate]]s for an [[election]].

====Synonyms====
*(colour/color): [[slate grey]], [[slate gray]]
*(record of money owed): [[account]], [[bill]]

====Translations====

'''rock'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[шиста]] {{f}}
*French: ardoise
*German: [[Schiefer]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[石板]] ([[せきばん]], sekiban)
{{bottom}}

'''colour/color'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Schiefer]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''sheet of slate for writing on'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Tafel]], [[Schiefertafel]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''tile'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Dachschiefer]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''record of money owed'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Schuldentafel]] (''put something on the slate'': etwas&nbsp;[[anschreiben]])
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''list of candidates for an election'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Liste]], [[Kandidatenliste]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''slate''' {{notcomp}}

#(colour) Having the bluish-grey/gray colour/color of slate.

====Translations====

'''bluish-grey/gray like slate'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''to slate''' ([[slating]], '''slated''')

# (''chiefly British'') To criticise/criticize harshly.
#:''The play was slated by the critics.''
#To be scheduled.
#:''The election was slated for November 2nd.''
#To be destined.
#:''The next version of our software is slated to be the best release ever.''

====Translations====

'''criticise/criticize harshly'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[a clean slate]]
*[[on the slate]]
*[[slate black]]
*[[slate blue]]
|}
| width=1% |
|valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[slate gray]]/[[slate grey]]
*[[slate pencil]]
*[[slate-coloured junco]]
|}
| width=1% |
|valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[slaty]]
*[[wipe the slate clean]]
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[basalt]]

===See also===
*[[blackboard]]
*[[chalkboard]]
*[[whiteboard]]
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Greys]]

[[et:slate]]
[[fr:slate]]
[[it:slate]]
[[zh:slate]]