==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/slɛʤ/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# a low [[sled]] drawn by animals, typically on snow, ice or grass.
#:''The '''sledge''' ran far better upon the ice, I cannot say the same for the dogs.''
# {{italbrac|UK}} any type of [[sled]] or [[sleigh]].
#*'''1708:''' F. C. [possibly F. Conyers], ''Compleat Collier: Or, The Whole Art of Sinking, Getting, and Working, Coal-mines about Sunderland and New-Castle''  
#*:Aged wore out Coal-Horses, which after some time Wrought you will have, may serve turn for '''Sledge'''-Horses.
#*'''1716:''' Myles Davies, ''Athenae Britannicae: Or, A Critical History of the Oxford and Cambridge Writers And Writings...Part I [the full title stretches for 70 words]'' reporting a passage in "Nicholas Sanders's Seditious Pamphlet" ''De Schismate Anglicano, &c'' (1585)
#*:Ty'd upon the '''Sledge''', a Papist and a Protestant in front, being two very disparate and antipathetick Companions, was a very ridiculous Science of Cruelty, even worst than Death it self (says he).
#*'''2006:''' Richard Higgins, Peter Brukner, Bryan English (editors), ''Essential Sports Medicine''
#*:There are also Winter Paralympic Games with Alpine and Nordic events, as well as '''sledge''' hockey - a form of ice hockey using a seated '''sledge'''.
#*'''2006:''' Pete Draper, ''Deconstructing the Elements With 3ds Max: Create Natural Fire, Earth, Air and Water Without Plug-Ins''
#*:For anyone who can recall their schooldays, when you used to get snow every winter, flying down hills on a polythene bag the thickness of an atom, and a lovely old '''sledge''' your Grandpa made for you (the only Christmas it DIDN'T snow),...
#(''or'' [[sledgehammer]]) a heavy, long handled [[maul]] or [[hammer]] used to drive [[stake]]s, [[wedge]]s, etc.
#*'''1737:''' J. Ray, ''A Collection of English Words Not Generally Used, With their Significations and Original in two ''Alphabetical Catalogues''; the one, of such as are proper to the ''Northern'', the other, to the ''Southern'' Counties. With an Account of the preparing and refining such ''Metals'' and ''Minerals'' as are found in ''England''.
#*:[based on information from Major Hill, Master of the Silver Mills, in 1662, descibing silver mining in Cardiganshire] They dig the Oar thus; One holds a little Picque, or Punch of Iron, having a long Handle of Wood which they call a ''Gad''; Another with a great Iron Hammer, or '''Sledge''', drives it into the Vein.
#*'''2006:''' Tom Benford, ''Garage And Workshop Gear Guide''
#*:'''Sledge''' hammers are only used for heavy-duty persuading when working on vehicles or machinery.

====Translations====
sled
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[:pl:sanie|sanie]] {{n}}
*Russian: [[:ru:сани|сани]] (sáni) ''pl'', [[нарты]] (nárty) ''pl''
*Slovene: [[:sl:sani|sani]] {{f}}

{{bottom}}

{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[кувалда]] (kuválda)
{{bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[:hr:saonice|saonice]]; [[:hr:malj|malj]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|sledg|ing}}

# to [[drag]] or [[draw]] a sledge.
#*'''1860:''' Sherard Osborn, ''The career, last voyage and fate of ... Sir John Franklin''
#*:It should be remembered, that these explorations were nearly all made by our seamen and officers on foot, dragging sledges, on which were piled tents, provision, fuel for cooking, and raiment. This '''sledging''' was brought to perfection by Captain M'Clintock.
#*'''2004:''' Andy Selters, ''Ways to the Sky: A Historical Guide to North American Mountaineering''
#*:'''Sledging''' en route to Mt. Logan on the 1925 first ascent. [caption to photo of four men dragging a sledge]
# to [[ride]], [[travel]] with or [[transport]] in a sledge.
#*'''1811:''' Maria Edgeworth, ''Popular Tales''
#*:He was also to initiate me in the American pastime of sleighing, or '''sledging'''.
#*'''1860:''' John Timbs, ''School-days of Eminent Men: I. Sketches of the Progress of Education in England, from the Reign of King Alfred''
#*:When "the great fen or moor" which washed the city walls on the north was frozen over, sliding, '''sledging''', and skating were the sports of crowds.
#*'''2006:''' Godfrey (EDT) Baldacchino, ''Extreme Tourism: Lessons from the World's Cold Water Islands''
#*:Some of these may be closely associated with the day-to-day lifestyle of such communities — marine activities (fishing, wildlife viewing), mountain activities (abseiling, climbing, hunting) or winter sports (dog '''sledging''').
# to hit with a [[sledgehammer]].
#*'''1842:''' John O'Donovan, ''The Banquet of Dun Na N-Gedh and The Battle of Magh Rath: An Ancient and Historical Tale''
#*:The rapid and violent exertion of smiths, mightily '''sledging''' the glowing iron masses of their furnaces.
#*'''2005:''' Langdon W Moore, ''Langdon W. Moore: His Own Story of His Eventful Life''
#*:When I inquired the reason of this wire being used in the construction of the safe, I was told it was to prevent the doors being broken by either '''sledging''' or wedging.
#(''originally cricket'') (''originally Australian'') to [[verbally]] [[insult]] or [[abuse]] an [[opponent]] in order to [[distract]] them (considered [[unsportsmanlike]]).
#*'''1998:''' Larry Elliott, Daniel E Atkinson, ''The Age of Insecurity''
#*:Batteries of fast bowlers softened batsmen up with short-pitched bowling, while fielders tried to disturb their concentration with a running commentary of insults commonly known as '''sledging'''.
#*'''2004:''' Dhanjoo N. Ghista, ''Socio-Economic Democracy and the World Government: Collective Capitalism, Depovertization, Human Rights, Template for Sustainable Peace''
#*:Then, all these...government legislators...would be able to totally concentrate on their roles and functions, without being entangled in interparty '''sledging''' and squabbles.
#*'''2005:''' David Fraser, ''Cricket and the Law: The Man in White Is Always Right''
#*:The 2000 ''Code of the Laws of Cricket'' includes new anti-'''sledging''' provisions.

===See also===
*[[sled]]
*[[sleigh]]

[[vi:sledge]]