==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/'slaɪd/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪd|-aɪd]]
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[slīdan]]''

===Verb===
{{en-verb|slides|sliding|slid}}

====Transitive====
# To cause to move in continuous contact with a surface
#: ''He '''slid''' the boat across the grass.''

====Translations====
'''to cause to move in contact with a surface'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[liu'uttaa]], [[työntää]], [[vetää]]
*German: [[gleiten]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Intransitive====
# To move in continuous contact with a surface.
#: ''The safe '''slid''' slowly.''
# To move on a low friction surface.
#: ''The car '''slid''' on the ice.''
#{{baseball}} To drop down and skid into a base.
#: ''Jones '''slid into second.''
# To lose one’s balance on a slippery surface.
#: ''He '''slid''' while going around the corner.''
# To let pass without action.
#: ''The administrator let the minor infraction '''slide''' with only a disapproving look.

====Translations====
'''to move in continuous contact with a surface'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[انزلق]]}} {{IPAchar|(’inzálaqa)}}
*Chinese: [[滑]] (huá)
*Dutch: [[glijden]]
*Finnish: [[liukua]]
*French: [[glisser]]
*German: [[gleiten]]
*Hungarian: [[csúsz]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[scivolare]]
*Japanese: [[滑る]] (すべる, suberu)
*Korean: [[미끄러지다]] (miggeureojida)
*Portuguese: [[deslizar]]
*Russian: [[скользить]] (skol’zít’)
*Slovene: [[drseti]]
*Spanish: [[deslizar]]
*Swedish: [[glida]]
{{bottom}}

'''to move with low friction'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[liukua]], [[luisua]]
*French: [[glisser]]
*German: [[rutschen]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[drseti]]
{{bottom}}

'''in baseball'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[syöksyä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to lose balance'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[liukastua]]
*French: [[glisser]]
*German: [[ausrutschen]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[spodrsniti]], [[zdrsniti]]
{{bottom}}

'''to let pass'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[mennä]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: ([[neopaženo]]) [[miniti]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[toy]] for [[child]]ren where they climb up and then slide, [[glide]] down again.
#: ''The long, red '''slide''' was great fun for the kids.''
# The event of large amounts of [[rubble]], [[earth]] and [[stones]] moving down the slope of a hill or from a mountain.
#: ''The '''slide''' closed the highway.''
# A [[lever]] that can be moved in two directions.
# A [[valve]] that works by sliding such as in a [[trombone]].
# A [[transparent]] [[image]], to be [[project]]ed to a [[screen]].
# {{baseball}} The act of droping down and skidding into a base

====Translations====
'''toy'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[liukumäki]]
*French: [[toboggan]] {{m}}
*German: [[Rutsche]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[tobogan]]
{{bottom}}

'''rubble, earth and stones moving down'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[maanvyöry]], [[maanvyörymä]]
*German: [[Erdrutsch]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[udor]]
{{bottom}}

'''lever'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[vipu]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''valve in eg. a trombone'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[luisti]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[drsalni zaklopec]]
{{bottom}}

'''transparent image for projecting'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[dia]], [[diapositiivi]], [[kuultokuva]]
*German: [[Dia]] {{n}}, [[Klarsichtfolie]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[dias]], [[diapozitiv]]
{{bottom}}

'''in baseball'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[syöksy]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

'''from verbs'''
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[glijden]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[glitar]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[gelincir|menggelincir]], [[gelincir|tergelincir]], [[luncur|meluncur]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[滑る]] ([[すべる]], suberu)

'''from noun'''
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[glijbaan]] {{f}} (1), [[schuifaf]] {{f}} (1), [[lawine]] {{f}} (2), [[schuif]] {{f}} (3), [[ventiel]] {{n}} (4)
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[lumbildo]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[lumbildo]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

[[fr:slide]]
[[io:slide]]
[[it:slide]]
[[fi:slide]]
[[vi:slide]]
[[uk:slide]]
[[zh:slide]]