==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'slɪɳ/

===Verb===
'''to sling''' ([[slung]], slung)
# to [[throw]]

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[slingeren]], [[werpen]], [[ophangen]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[]]

===Noun===
'''sling''' (''plural'' slings)
#(''Weapon'') [[Category:Weapon]] An [[instrument]] for [[throw]]ing [[stone]]s or other [[missile]]s, consisting of a short [[strap]] with two [[string]]s [[fasten]]ed to its ends, or with a string fastened to one end and a [[light]] [[stick]] to the other. The missile being [[lodge]]d in a [[hole]] in the strap, the ends of the string are taken in the [[hand]], and the whole [[whirl]]ed [[rapidly]] round until, by loosing one end, the missile is let [[fly]] with [[centrifugal]] force.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''': The [[Sling]] is also a weapon of great [[antiquity]], formerly in high [[estimation]] among the [[ancient]]s. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 43.
#A kind of [[hang]]ing [[bandage]] put around the [[neck]], in which a [[wound]]ed [[arm]] or [[hand]] is [[support]]ed.
#A [[loop]] of [[rope]], or a rope or [[chain]] with [[hook]]s, for [[suspend]]ing a [[barrel]], [[bale]], or other [[heavy]] [[object]], in [[hoist]]ing or [[lower]]ing.
#A strap attached to a [[firearm]], for suspending it from the [[shoulder]].
#(Nautical) A band of rope or iron for securing a [[yard]] to a [[mast]]; -- chiefly in the plural.
# The [[act]] or [[motion]] of [[hurl]]ing as with a sling; a [[throw]]; figuratively, a [[stroke]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1600''': To be, or not to be, that is the [[question]]: Whether 'tis [[noble]]r in the mind to [[suffer]] The [[sling]]s and [[arrow]]s of [[outrageous]] [[fortune]], Or to take [[arm]]s against a sea of [[trouble]]s, And by opposing, end them. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Hamlet'', Act III, Scene I, line 55.

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[slinger]], [[zwaai]], [[draagband]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[]]