==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/slɒt/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒt|-ɒt]]

===Etymology 1===
From Middle Low German ''[[#Low German|slot]]'' or Middle (and modern) Dutch ''[[#Dutch|slot]]'', from West Germanic.  Cognate with German ''[[Schloss]]'' ‘door-bolt’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

#A broad, flat, wooden bar, a [[slat]], especially as used to secure a door, window, etc.
#A metal bolt or wooden bar, especially as a [[crosspiece]].

=====Translations=====
;wooden bar for fastening door
{{top}}
*French: [[barre]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;broad bolt or bar, crosspiece
{{top}}
*Danish: [[liste]], [[lamel]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|slots|slotting|slotted}}

# {{obsolete}} To bolt or lock a door or window.

===Etymology 2===
From Old French ''[[esclot]]'', of unknown origin.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

#A narrow depression, perforation, or aperture; especially, one for the reception of a piece fitting or sliding in it.
#The allocated time for an aircraft's departure or arrival at an airport's runway.
#In a flying display, the forth position; after the leader and two wingmen.

=====Translations=====
'''A narrow depression, perforation, or aperture'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[sprække]], [[revne]], [[rille]], [[kærv]]
*French: [[emplacement]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''The allocated time for an aircraft's departure or arrival at an airport's runway'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From Old French ''[[esclot]]'', from Old Norse ''[[slóð]]'' ‘track’.  Compare ''[[sleuth]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

#The [[track]] of an animal, especially a [[deer]].
#:*'''1819''': “One is from Hexamshire; he is wont to trace the Tynedale and Teviotdale thieves, as a bloodhound follows the '''slot''' of a hurt deer.” — Walter Scott, ''Ivanhoe''

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Danish: [[spor]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
*[[slot-hound]]

===Translations to be checked===
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[ranura]] {{f}}

===Anagrams===
*[[lots]]

===See also===
*[[close]]
*[[sluice]]

----

==Danish==
===Noun===
'''slot''' {{n}}

# [[castle]]
# [[palace]]
# [[manor house]]

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''slot''' {{n}}

# [[lock]]
# [[castle]]
# [[conclusion]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

[[fr:slot]]
[[id:slot]]
[[it:slot]]
[[nl:slot]]
[[sv:slot]]
[[vi:slot]]
[[zh:slot]]