{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
{{OF.}} ''[[escluse]]'', {{F.}} ''[[écluse]]'', {{LL.}} ''[[exclusa]]'', ''[[sclusa]]'', from {{L.}} ''[[excludere]], [[exclusum]]'', to shut out: confer {{D.}} ''[[sluis]]'' sluice, from the Old French.  See [[exclude]].

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːs|-uːs]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An artifical passage for water, fitted with a valve or gate, as in a mill stream, for stopping or regulating the flow; also, a water gate of flood gate.
# Hence, an opening or channel through which anything flows; a source of supply.
#:''Each '''sluice''' of affluent fortune opened soon.''  -Harte.
#:''This home familiarity . . . opens the '''sluices''' of sensibility.''  -I. Taylor.
# The stream flowing through a flood gate.
# ''(Mining):'' A long box or trough through which water flows, -- used for washing auriferous earth.  

===See also===
*[[sluiceway]]
*[[sluice gate]] ''the sliding gate of a sluice''

===Translations===
{{top}}
*Italian: [[chiusa]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Romanian: [[ecluza]] {{f}}, [[deschizatura]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|sluic|ing}}

# To emit by, or as by, flood gates. [R.] Milton.
# To wet copiously, as by opening a sluice; as, to sluice meadows. Howitt.
#:''He dried his neck and face, which he had been '''sluicing''' with cold water.''  -De Quincey.
# To wash with, or in, a stream of water running through a sluice; as, to sluice eart or gold dust in mining. 

===References===
*{{R:1913}}
{{seeCites}}

[[fa:sluice]]
[[fr:sluice]]
[[io:sluice]]
[[it:sluice]]
[[vi:sluice]]