==English==

===Etymology===
First attested in 1402 CE, with the meaning ''untidy woman''; cognate with the Dutch ''[[slodder]]'', dialectal German ''[[Schlutt]]'' (''sloven''), and dialectal Swedish ''[[slata]]'' (''idle woman'').  From the Late Middle English ''[[slutte]]'', from ''[[slut#Middle English|slut]]'' (''mud''); of uncertain origin beyond that.  Cf. the Norwegian ''[[slutr]]'' (''sleep'', ''impure liquid'').

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌt|-ʌt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{countable}} {{derogatory}} a [[sexual]]ly [[promiscuous]] [[woman]].
# {{countable}} a [[prostitute]].
# {{countable}} {{derogatory}} a [[slovenly]], [[untidy]] [[person]], usually a [[woman]].
#* '''1600''' CE: William Shakespeare, ''As you like it''
#*: Clo. ''Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul '''slut''', were to put good meat into an unclean dish. \ ''Aud''. I am not a '''slut''', though I thank the Goddess I am foul.''
#* '''1602''' CE: William Shakespeare, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor''
#*: ''Where fires thou find'st unrak'd, and hearths unswept, \ There pinch the Maids as blew as Bill-berry, \ Our radiant Queene, hates '''Sluts''', and Sluttery.''
# {{countable}} {{derogatory}} a [[bold]], outspoken woman.
#* '''1728''' CE: John Gay, ''Begger's Opera''
#*: ''Our Polly is a sad '''Slut'''! nor heeds what we have taught her.''
# {{countable}} {{archaic}} a [[female]] [[dog]].
#* '''1852''' CE: Susanna Moodie, ''Roughing it in the Bush''
#*: ''‘Bete!’ returned the angry Frenchman, bestowing a savage kick on one of the unoffending pups which was frisking about his feet. The pup yelped; the '''slut''' barked and leaped furiously at the offender, and was only kept from biting him by Sam, who could scarcely hold her back for laughing; the captain was uproarious; the offended Frenchman alone maintained a severe and dignified aspect. The dogs were at length dismissed, and peace restored.''
# {{countable}} {{archaic}} a [[maid]].
#* '''1664''' CE: Samuel Pepys, ''The Diary of Samuel Pepys''
#*: ''Our little girl Susan is a most admirable '''slut''', and pleases us mightily, doing more service than both the others and deserves wages better.''

====Synonyms====
# ''(sexually promiscuous woman)'': see [[WikiSaurus:promiscuous woman]].

====Derived terms====
*[[slutty]]
*[[slutliness]], [[slutiness]]

====Translations====
;sexually promiscuous woman
{{top}}
*German: [[Schlampe]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[slampa]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

;prostitute
{{top}}
*German: [[Schlampe]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hora]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

;untidy person
{{top}}
&nbsp;
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;bold, outspoken woman
{{top}}
&nbsp;
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a female dog
{{top}}
&nbsp;
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tik#Swedish|tik]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

;a maid
{{top}}
&nbsp;
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
''This must be split into separate tables.''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[امراة فاسقة]]}} (imrāt fāsqa) {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[مومس]]}} (mūms)
*Chinese: [[荡妇]] (dàngfù)
*Dutch: [[slet]] {{f}}
*[[Esperanto]]: [[virinaĉo]]
*French: [[pute]] {{f}}
*Hebrew: [[רשלן]] (rashlan) {{m}}, [[שלומפר]] (shlumper) {{m}}
*Hindi: [[कुलटा]] {{Unicode|(kulaṭā)}} {{g|Hindi}}
*Irish: [[leadhbóg]] {{f}}, [[toice]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[puttana]] {{f}}, [[troia]] {{f}}, [[sgualdrina]] {{f}}, [[mignotta]] {{f}}
*Korean: [[흘게늦은]] (heulgeneucheun)
*Middle English: [[slutte]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[خوراک سگ]]}} (khorak sag), {{FAchar|[[زن کثیف]]}} (zan kasîf)
*Polish: [[flejtuch]] {{m}}, [[suka]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Romanian: [[curvă]] {{f}}, [[prostituată]] {{f}}, [[târfă]] {{f}}; [[căţea]] {{f}} (4)
*Russian: [[шалава]] (šaláva) {{f}}, [[поблядушка]] (pobljadúška) {{f}}, [[лярва]] (ljárva) {{f}}, [[блядь]] (bljad’) {{f}}
*Scottish Gaelic: [[leodag]] {{f}}, [[bruchag]] {{f}}, [[reipseach]] {{f}}, [[luid]] {{f}}, [[strapaid]] {{f}}, [[slapag]] {{f}}
*[[Shona]]: [[hure]]
*Spanish: [[dejada]] {{f}}, [[puta]] {{f}}, [[golfa]] {{f}}, [[ramera]] {{f}}, [[mujerzuela]] {{f}}, [[cambollana]] ((f))
*Thai: {{THchar|[[หญิงชาติชั่ว]]}} (yĭng châat chûa)
*Welsh: [[slwt]] {{f}}, [[slebog]] {{g|Welsh}}
*Yiddish: [[הולטײַק]] (hultaik) {{f}}
*[[Zulu]]: [[umnukuba]], [[ivaka]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[bitch]]

----

==Romanian==

===Etymology===
From a Slavic language.

===Adjective===
'''slut'''
# [[crippled]]
# [[ugly]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-n-zero}}
'''slut''' {{n}}

# [[end]] 
#: ''Jag tyckte om '''slutet''' av boken.'' : I liked the '''end''' of the book.
#: ''Jag tyckte om bokens '''slut'''.'' : I liked the '''end''' of the book.
# no more, 'the last is taken'
#:''Kakorna är '''slut'''.'' : There are '''no more''' cookies.

[[Category:Sex]]
[[Category:People]]

[[Category:Swedish nouns]]
[[Category:Romanian adjectives]]

[[fr:slut]]
[[io:slut]]
[[it:slut]]
[[hu:slut]]
[[sv:slut]]
[[vi:slut]]