==English==
===Transitive verb===
'''to smash''' ('''smashing''', '''smashed''')

#To break (something brittle) violently.
#:''The demolition team smashed the buildings to rubble.''
#:''The flying rock smashed the window to pieces.''
<!-- same as "break violently?#To damage or destroy something brittle by strong, blunt pressure.-->
#To hit extremely hard.
#:''He smashed his head against the table''
#:''Bonds smashed the ball 467 feet, the second longest home run in the history of the park.''
#(''figuratively'') To ruin completely and suddenly.
#:''The news smashed any hopes of a reunion.''
#(''figuratively'') To defeat [[overwhelming]]ly.
#:''The Indians smashed the Yankees 22-0.''
# (''US'') To deform through continuous pressure.
#: ''I slowly smashed the modeling clay flat with the palm of my hand.''

====Synonyms====

*(''break violently''): [[dash]], [[shatter]]
*(''hit extremely hard''): [[pound]], [[thump]], [[wallop]]
*(''ruin completely and suddenly''): [[dash]]
*(''defeat overwhelmingly''): [[slaughter]], [[trounce]]

====Translations====

'''to break violently'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[fracasser]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''hit extremely hard'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''figuratively: to ruin completely and suddenly'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''figuratively: to defeat overwhelmingly'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Intransitive verb===
'''to smash''' ('''smashing''', '''smashed''')

#To be destroyed by being smashed.
#:''The crockery smashed as it hit the floor.''

====Synonyms====
*(''be destroyed by being smashed''): [[shatter]]

====Translations====

'''be destroyed by being smashed'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Noun===
'''smash''' (''plural'' '''smashes''')

#The sound of a violent impact.
#: ''I could hear the screech of the brakes, then the horrible smash of cars colliding.''
#(''colloquial''; ''outside US'') <!--more exact regional usage? --> A traffic accident.
#:''The driver and two passengers were badly injured in the smash.''
#(''colloquial''; ''entertainment'') Something very successful.
#:''This new show of mine is sure to be a smash.''
#(''tennis'') A very hard overhead shot hit sharply downward.
#:''A smash may not be as pretty as a good half volley, but it can still win points.''

====Synonyms====

*(''sound of a violent impact''): [[crash]]
*(''colloquial: traffic accident''): [[crash]]
*(''colloquial: something very successful''): [[smash hit]]

====Translations====

'''sound of a violent impact'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''colloquial: traffic accident'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''colloquial: something very successful'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''in tennis'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: smash ''m''
*Italian: smash ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[go to smash]]
*[[smash and grab]]
*[[smash hit]]
*[[smash into]]
*[[smash up]]
*[[smashed]]
*[[smashing]]

----
==French==
===Noun===
'''smash''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''smashs''' ''or'' '''smashes''')

#smash (''in tennis'')

----
==Italian==
===Noun===
'''smash''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''smash''')<!--the plural is the same as the singular-->

#smash (''in tennis'')
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]