==English==
{{wikipedia}}
{{webster}}
===Etymology===
From [[w:Old English language|Anglo-Saxon]][[Category:Anglo-Saxon derivations]] smoc; ''akin to'' [[w:Old High German|Old High German]][[Category:Old High German derivations]] smocho, [[w:Icelandic language|Icelandic]][[Category:Icelandic derivations]] smokkr, and from the root of [[w:Old English language|Anglo-Saxon]][[Category:Anglo-Saxon derivations]] smgan ''to [[creep]]'', akin to [[w:German language|German]][[Category:German derivations]] [[schmiegen]] ''to [[cling]] to'', ''[[press]] [[close]]''. [[w:Middle High German|Middle High German]][[Category:Words of Middle High German language origin]] smiegen, [[w:Icelandic language|Icelandic]][[Category:Icelandic derivations]] smjga ''to creep through'', ''to put on a garment which has a hole to put the head through''; compare with [[w:Lithuanian language|Lithuanian]][[Category:Lithuanian derivations]] smukti ''to [[glide]]''. See also [[smug]], [[smuggle]].

===Noun===
'''smock'''
#A woman's [[under-garment]]; a [[shift]]; a [[chemise]]. 
#:''In her smock, with head and foot all bare.'' Chaucer.
#A [[blouse]]; a [[smock frock]]. Carlyle. 

===Adjective===
'''smock'''
#Of or pertaining to a smock; resembling a smock
#Hence, of or pertaining to a [[woman]]. 

'''[[smock mill]]'''
#a [[windmill]] of which only the [[cap]] turns round to meet the [[wind]], in distinction from a [[post mill]], whose whole building turns on a post. 

'''[[smock race]]'''
#a race run by women for the prize of a smock. [Prov. Eng.] 

===Transitive verb===
'''to smock'''
#To provide with, or [[clothe]] in, a smock or a smock frock. Tennyson. 
#To apply [[smocking]]



<!-- from Webster

Smock (Page: 1359)
Smock (?), n. [AS. smoc; akin to OHG. smocho, Icel. smokkr, and from the root of AS. smgan to creep, akin to G. schmiegen to cling to, press close. MHG. smiegen, Icel. smjga to creep through, to put on a garment which has a hole to put the head through; cf. Lith. smukti to glide. Cf. Smug, Smuggle.] 

1. A woman's under-garment; a shift; a chemise. 

In her smock, with head and foot all bare. Chaucer.
2. A blouse; a smoock frock. Carlyle. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Smock (Page: 1359)
Smock (?), a. Of or pertaining to a smock; resembling a smock; hence, of or pertaining to a woman. Smock mill, a windmill of which only the cap turns round to meet the wind, in distinction from a post mill, whose whole building turns on a post. -- Smock race, a race run by women for the prize of a smock. [Prov. Eng.] 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Smock (Page: 1359)
Smock, v. t. To provide with, or clothe in, a smock or a smock frock. Tennyson. 


-->

[[ang:Smock]]
[[it:smock]]