{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-snap.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A quick [[break]]ing or [[crack]]ing sound or the action of producing such a sound.
# A sudden break.
# An attempt to [[seize]], [[bite]], [[attack]], or [[grab]].
# The act of [[hit]]ting a middle or ring [[finger]] against the [[palm]] after a quick [[frictive]] movement between the thumb and that finger.
# A [[fasten]]ing device that makes a snapping sound when used.
# A photograph (an abbreviation of [[snapshot]])
# The sudden [[release]] of something held under [[pressure]] or [[tension]].
# A thin circular cookie or similar good: 
#:''a ginger '''snap'''''
# [[Brisk]], [[cold]] [[weather]] that passes quickly.
#:''a [[cold snap]]''
# Something accomplished with quickly or with little or no [[effort]].
#:''It'll be a '''snap''' to get that finished.''
#a very short period of [[time]]
#:''I can fix most vacuum cleaners in a '''snap'''.''
# ''Phaseolus vulgaris''; a snap [[bean]].
#{{fb}} The passing of a [[football]] from the [[center]] to a [[back]] that begins [[play]], a [[hike]].
# Common name for a scrapbooking embellishment, more properly termed a rivet.
# ''Yorkshire'': food in general or a packed meal in particular.
# A card game, primarily for children (see [[w:snap (game)|snap (game)]])

====Translations====
*Spanish: [[chasquido]] {{m}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|snap||p}}

[[Intransitive]]:
# To break apart [[sudden]]ly or at once.
# To give forth or produce a sharp cracking noise; to crack.
# To attempt to seize with the teeth or bite.
# To attempt to seize with eagerness.
# To speak [[abruptly]] or [[sharply]].
#:''He '''snapped''' at me for the slightest mistake.''
# To give way abruptly and loudly.
# To suffer a [[mental]] [[breakdown]], usually while under tension.
#:''She really should take a break before she '''snaps'''.''
# To [[flash]] or appear to flash as with light.
# To fit or fasten together with a snapping sound.

[[Transitive]]:
# To snatch with or like with the teeth.
# To pull apart with a snapping sound.
# To say abruptly or sharply.
# To cause something to emit a snapping sound, such as a fastener.
# To close something using a snap as a fastener.
# To snap one's fingers.  To make a sound using the middle finger and thumb.
# To cause to move suddenly and smartly.
# To take a [[photograph]]; to photograph.
#:''He '''snapped''' a picture of me with my mouth open and my eyes closed.''
# {{fb}} To [[pass]] the [[ball]] from the [[center]] to a back, to [[hike]] the ball.

====Translations====
*French: [[rompre]] (1 (at least))
*Spanish: [[chasquear]]

===Interjection===
'''snap'''!

# The winning cry at a game of [[w:snap (game)|snap]].
# Used in place of expletive to express surprise, usually in response to a negative statement or news; often used facetiously.
#:''"I just ran over your phone with my car."''
#:''"Oh, snap!"''
# Australian: ritual utterance used after something is said by two people at exactly the same time.

[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:Onomatopoeia]]

[[bg:snap]]
[[fr:snap]]
[[io:snap]]
[[it:snap]]
[[zh:snap]]