{{See|Sodomite}}
==English==
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# {{rfv-sense}} An [[immoral]] person.
# One who practices [[sodomy]]; a [[sodomist]].
#{{derogatory}} A [[homosexual]] male.
#{{rfv-sense}} An [[inhospitable]] person. [see usage notes below].

====Derived terms====
*[[sodomitry]]

====Related terms====
*[[sodomitic]]<!--from Latin-->
*[[sodomitical]]<!--from Latin-->
*[[sodomy]]

====Usage notes====
*The usage of the term in the literal sense, ''inhabitant of Sodom'', dates back as far as the [[Bible]].  The usage of the term to mean ''an immoral person'' dates back to at least the first century [[BCE]].  The usage of the term by English-speaking peoples to mean ''a homosexual'' dates back to the 14th century CE.  Historically, many translators substituted the word in place of various Hebrew words (all with the basic meaning of ''immoral person'') when translating the Bible into other languages.  However, the precise substitution varied in different languages, and thus the term can carry starkly different connotations in different languages.  For example, in Norwegian and German, a sodomite is a person who has sexual intercourse with animals; in contrast, many English-speaking people use the term as a synonym for homosexual.  A further dissertation of the word can be found  [http://www.religioustolerance.org/hom_bibg.htm here].
*Recent re-interpretations of the Biblical fable of Sodom and Gommorha echo the earliest understanding of them: that the cities were destroyed because of their inhabitants' inhospitality, not their homosexuality.  This would explain why the word sodomite is beginning to be used to designate an inhospitable person.

[[fr:sodomite]]
[[vi:sodomite]]