==English==
===Etymology===
From the [[Bible]], Genesis chapters 18 & 19.

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''sodomy'''
#Immorality in general.
#[[Anal]] [[sex]] (generally used only in reference to this act between two males). [[Buggery]].
#Archaic: Any of various forms of [[sexual]] [[intercourse]] held to be [[unnatural]], [[abnormal]] or [[illegal]], particularly sexual intercourse with a [[beast]].
#Archaic: [[Inhospitality]].

====Usage notes====
*The usage of the term ''Sodomy'' to mean ''[[immorality]]'' dates back to at least the first century [[BCE]].  Originally, the term was used by Jewish rabbis with the meaning of ''[[inhospitality]]''.  The term did not acquire sexual connotations until after the first century [[CE]], when it was substituted for the Hebrew word for ''temple prostitute'' in Christian translations of the Bible.  Historically, many translators substituted the word in place of various Hebrew words (all with the basic meaning of ''immoral person'') when translating the Bible into other languages.  However, the precise substitution varied in different languages, and thus the term can carry starkly different connotations in different languages.  The usage of the term by English-speaking peoples to mean ''male homosexuality'' dates back to the 14th century CE.  In German, the term ''Sodomie'' refers to a person who has sexual intercourse with animals.  In Norwegian, the term ''sodomi'' carries both the original and the sexual connotations, and refers to inhospitality or to a male who has sexual intercourse with animals.  A further dissertation of the word can be found  [http://www.religioustolerance.org/hom_bibg.htm here].

===Translations===
*[[Finnish]]: [[sodomia]]
*[[French]]: [[sodomie]] {{f}}
*[[German]]: [[Sodomie]] {{f}}
*[[Norwegian]]: [[sodomi]]

[[Category:English nouns]]

[[fi:sodomy]]