==English==

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔɪl|-ɔɪl]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# (''[[uncountable]]'') A mixture of [[sand]] and [[organic]] material, used to support plant growth.
# (''[[uncountable]]'') The unconsolidated mineral or organic material on the immediate surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land plants. 
# (''[[uncountable]]'') The unconsolidated mineral or organic matter on the surface of the earth that has been subjected to and shows effects of genetic and environmental factors of: climate (including water and temperature effects), and macro- and microorganisms, conditioned by relief, acting on parent material over a period of time. A product-soil differs from the material from which it is derived in many physical, chemical, biological, and morphological properties and characteristics. 
# (''[[uncountable]]''; ''[[euphemistic]]'') Faeces or urine etc. when found on clothes.
# (''[[countable]]'') In medical terms, a bag containing soiled items.
# ''[[euphemistic]]'' Country or territory. 
#:''The refugees returned to their native '''soil'''.''

====Synonyms====
*(1, 2, 3): [[dirt]], [[earth]]
*(4): [[dirt]]

====Translations====
;A mixture of sand and organic material (1)
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[泥土]] (nítǔ)
*Dutch: [[grond]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[multa]]
*French: [[sol]] {{m}}
*German: [[Boden]] {{m}}
*Indonesian: [[tanah]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[suolo]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[土]] (つち, tsuchi)
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[земля]] (z'eml'á) {{f}}, [[почва]] (póčva) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[suelo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

;mineral or organic material serving as a natural medium for the growth of land plants (2)
{{top}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[terreno]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}, [[terra]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[почва]] (póčva) {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;The unconsolidated mineral or organic material on the immediate surface of the earth  (3)
{{top}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[почва]] (póčva) {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;Faeces or urine etc. (4)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[lika]], [[sonta]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a bag containing soiled items (5)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Country or territory (6)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[maaperä]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[solo#Portuguese|solo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[земля]] (z'eml'á) {{f}}
*Swedish: [[jord]] {{c}}, [[mark#Swedish|mark]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[تربة]]}} {{Unicode|(túrba)}} {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[土]] (tǔ)
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[aarde]] {{f}}, [[vloer]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[terre]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Erde]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[föld]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[sulo]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[terra]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[흙]] (heuk)
*{{ttbc|Navajo}}: [[łeezh]]
*{{ttbc|Persian}}: {{FAchar|[[خاک]]}} (xak)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[ziemia]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Rohingya}}: [[meçi]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[tierra]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To make [[dirt]]y.
# (''reflexively:'' '''to soil oneself''') To dirty one's clothing by accidentally defecating while clothed.
# To make invalid, to ruin.

====Translations====
;To make dirty (1)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bevuilen]]
*Finnish: [[liata]]
*French: [[salir]]
*Hebrew:  [[ללכלך]] (li-likhlakh)
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[sporcare]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[خاکی کردن]]}} (xâki kardan)
*Swedish: [[skita ner]], [[smutsa ner]]
{{bottom}}

;To make invalid, to ruin (2)
{{top}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[خاکی کردن]]}} (xâki kardan)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[souiller]]

[[Media:Example.ogg]][[Media:Example.ogg]][[Media:Example.ogg]][[Media:Example.ogg]][[Media:Example.ogg]][[Media:Example.ogg]][[Media:Example.ogg]][[Media:Example.ogg]]<nowiki>Insert non-formatted text here</nowiki><nowiki>Insert non-formatted text here</nowiki><nowiki>Insert non-formatted text here</nowiki>--[[User:68.167.84.51|68.167.84.51]] 23:52, 22 October 2006 (UTC)--[[User:68.167.84.51|68.167.84.51]] 23:52, 22 October 2006 (UTC)
----

----

----

----

----

----

== Headline text ==

== Headline text ==
[http://www.example.com link title][http://www.example.com link title][http://www.example.com link title][http://www.example.com link title][http://www.example.com link title][[Link title]][[Link title]][[Link title]][[Link title]][[Link title]]''Italic text''''Italic text''''Italic text''''Italic text'''''Bold text''''''Bold text''''''Bold text''''''Bold text''''''Bold text''''''Bold text'''
== Headline text ==
[[Link title]][http://www.example.com link title]===Related terms===
*[[soilless]]
*[[soil pipe]]
*[[solum]]
*[[topsoil]]

----

==Basque==
===Adjective===
'''soil'''

# [[bald]]

[[Category:Basque language]]

----

==Rohingya==
===Etymology===
From Bengali
===Noun===
'''soil'''

# [[rice]]

[[Category:Rohingya language]]

[[fr:soil]]
[[io:soil]]
[[it:soil]]
[[hu:soil]]
[[fi:soil]]
[[ta:soil]]
[[vi:soil]]
[[zh:soil]]