==English==
 
{{rank|among|done|days|212|something|gave|asked|soon}}
===Etymology===
Compound of [[some]] + [[thing]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-something.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Pronoun===
'''something'''
# an unspecified object.
#:''I must have forgotten to pack '''something''', but I can't think of what.''
# an event which breaks up a period of calm.
#: (''Isn't something meant to happen?'')
# someone or something that has a [[quality]] to a moderate degree.  (''The performance was something of a disappointment.'')
# a talent which is hard to pin down.
#: (''You've got something'')
# somebody or something who is [[superlative]] in some way.  (''You're really something!'') 

====Abbreviations====
Some translation dictionaries use the abbreviation ''sth'' for this word, just as in French ''quelque chose'' is abbreviated ''qqch''.
 
====Related terms====
*[[thing]]
*[[nothing]]
*[[anything]]
*[[everything]]
*[[somebody]], [[someone]]
*[[somewhere]]
 
====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Amuzgo]]: [[makjo]]
*[[Anglo-Saxon]]: [[áht]] ''n'', [[áhwæðer]], [[áwiht]] ''n'', [[wiht]] ''f'', ''n'', [[sum]], [[hwá]] ''m, f'', [[hwæt]] ''n'', [[hwæthugu]], [[hwæthwega]], [[hwæthwegu]], [[hwæthwigu]], [[hwæthwugu]], [[hwæthwygu]], [[hwilchwene]], [[hwilchwone]], [[hwilchwegno]], [[hwilchwugu]], [[hwilchugu]]; ~ else [[óðer]]; ~ unknown [[náthwæt]]; ~ or other [[náthwæt]]
*Chinese: [[某事]]
*Czech: [[něco]]
*Dutch: [[iets]]
*Finnish: [[jokin]] (1), [[jokseenkin]] (2), [[jotakin]] (3)
*French: [[quelque chose]] (1)
*German: [[etwas]] (1)
*Greek: [[κάτι]] (káti)
*Hebrew: [[משהו]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[qualcosa]] (1)
*Japanese: [[何か]]
*Korean: [[무언가]]
*Portuguese: [[algo]] (1)
*Russian: [[что-то]] ''f'' (chto-to)<!-- check gender -->
*Slovene: [[nekaj]]
*Spanish: [[algo]] (1)
*Swedish: [[något]] (1,2,3,4,5), [[någonting]] (1,2)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[wanpela]] [[samting]] (1)
{{bottom}}
[[Category:English third person pronouns]]

===Noun===
'''something'''
# an [[important]] person; a [[somebody]]
#:''He looks a '''something''' behind that big desk.''
#(''in combination'') someone in a specified range of ages
#:''Ahe must be fifty'''something'''.''

===Adverb===
'''something'''
# [[somewhat]]; to a [[degree]]
#:''the baby looks '''something''' like his father.''

===Verb===
'''something'''
# Applied to an action whose name is forgotten by, unknown or unimportant to the user, e.g. from words of a song.
 
===Quotations===
{{timeline|
1800s=1890|
2000s=2003<br>2005}}
* '''1890,''' [[w:William Dean Howells|William Dean Howells]], ''[[w:A Hazard of New Fortunes|A Hazard of New Fortunes]]'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0140439234&id=IOZeJi7U4eEC&pg=PA96&lpg=PA96&sig=LW2P-uKmoZabe70ZKnIHIMQLXlw]
*: He didn’t apply for it for a long time, and then there was a hitch about it, and it was '''somethinged'''—vetoed, I believe she said.
* '''2003,''' George Angel, “Allegoady,” in ''Juncture,'' Lara Stapleton and Veronica Gonzalez edd. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN1887128913&id=qB-D32yV1VAC&pg=PA161&lpg=PA161&sig=9AYyYLA-MQqTgAbptreoe3VyOzQ]
*: She hovers over the something '''somethinging''' and awkwardly lowers her bulk.
* '''2005,''' Floyd Skloot, ''A World of Light'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0803243189&id=TEgRGe6FiTkC&pg=PA40&lpg=PA40&sig=zEj4BPQ0eEFkj6LdOI8eRJlZrzE]
*: “''Oh how we '''somethinged''' on the hmmm hmm we were wed.'' Dear, was I ever on the stage?”
 
===Noun===
'''something''' ''(plural:'' '''somethings''')
# Applied to an object whose name is forgotten by, unknown or unimportant to the user, e.g. from words of a song.  Also used to refer to an object earlier indefinitely referred to as 'something' (pronoun sense).
 
===Quotations===
{{timeline|
1900s=1999|
2000s=2004}}
* '''1999,''' Nicholas Clapp, ''The Road to Ubar'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0395957869&id=3ikdzDKkQ04C&pg=PA104&lpg=PA104&sig=UNimtwdgeC_w_wqGXfa4LsCDik8]
*: What was the '''something''' the pilot saw, the '''something''' worth killing for?
* '''2004,'''<!-- date of this edition... he's old enough to be PD --> Theron Q Dumont, ''The Master Mind'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0766185435&id=-n_jW7BVfawC&pg=PA26&lpg=PA26&sig=ou-CrIyWbKyZQ0s3q0uaJTiHdsI] 
*: Moreover, in all of our experience with these sense impressions, we never lose sight of the fact that they are but incidental facts of our mental existence, and that there is a '''Something''' Within which is really the Subject of these sense reports—a '''Something''' to which these reports are presented, and which receives them.
* '''2004,''' Ira Levin, ''The Stepford Wives'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0060738197&id=rKeKLf7LeXAC&pg=PA151&lpg=PA151&sig=uAeyLuj-HYk1dLAme_rokCWQITc]
*: She wiped something with a cloth, wiped at the wall shelf, and put the '''something''' on it, clinking glass.
 
[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[fr:something]]
[[io:something]]
[[it:something]]
[[hu:something]]
[[zh:something]]