==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[spær]]''

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛə(r)|-ɛə(r)]]

====Adjective====
'''spare'''

# [[scanty]]; not abundant or plentiful; as, a spare diet.
# [[sparing]]; [[frugal]]; [[parsimonious]]; [[chary]].
# Being over and above what is necessary, or what must be used or reserved; not wanted, or not used; [[superfluous]]; as, I have no spare time.
# Held in [[reserve]], to be used in an emergency; as, a spare anchor; a spare bed or room.
# [[lean]]; wanting flesh; [[meager]]; [[thin]]; [[gaunt]].
# [[slow]]

====Derived terms====
* [[spare part]]
* [[spare time]]
* [[spare tire]]
* [[spare tyre]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# The act of sparing; [[moderation]]; [[restraint]].
# [[Parsimony]]; frugal use.
# An opening in a [[petticoat]] or gown; a [[placket]].
# That which has not been used or expended.
# The right of bowling again at a full set of pins, after having knocked all the pins down in less than three bowls. If all the pins are knocked down in one bowl it is a double spare; in two bowls, a single spare.
# {{italbrac|bowling}} The act of knocking down all remaining pins in second ball of a [[frame]]; this entitles the pins knocked down on the next ball to be added to the score for that frame.

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[sparian]]''
====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|spar|e}}

# To be [[frugal]]; not to be profuse; to live frugally; to be parsimonious.
# To refrain from inflicting harm; to use mercy or forbearance.
# To [[desist]]; to [[stop]]; to [[refrain]].
# To keep to one's self; to [[forbear]] to impart or give.
# To preserve from danger or punishment; to forbear to punish, injure, or harm; to show mercy to.
# To save or gain, as by frugality; to reserve, as from some occupation, use, or duty.
# To deprive one's self of, as by being frugal; to do without; to dispense with; to give up; to part with.

[[fr:spare]]
[[io:spare]]
[[it:spare]]
[[hu:spare]]
[[zh:spare]]