{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
The word has been dated to around 1916, when its first known written usage was by Earnest Peixotto in ''Our Hispanic Southwest,'' page 102. Its history before that time, however, is less certain. It may derive from ''spig,'' in turn from ''spiggoty'' (sometimes spelled ''spiggity, spigotti,'' or ''spigoty''). The oldest known use of spiggoty is in 1910 by Wilbur Lawton in ''Boy Aviators in Nicaragua, or, in League with the Insurgents,'' page 331. The word was also used to refer to Italians around the same time, leading Stuart Berg Flexner in ''I hear America Talking,'' (1976) to suggest that it may actually derive from "no spik Ingles". Finally, a third theory is that the word ''spiggoty'' originally referred to Italians and thus was derived from the word ''spaghetti''. All three theories are in line with standard naming practices, which include attacking people according to the foods they eat (see [[Kraut]]) and for their failure to speak a language (see [[Barbarian]])

===Noun===
'''spic''' (''plural'' '''spics''') ''also'' '''spik''' ''or'' '''spick'''
<ol>
<li>(''derogatory, U.S.'') An [[Hispanic]] person.
:The Marines had been . . . silencing the elusive ‘spick’ bandit in Santo Domingo.--''[[wikipedia:Ladies' Home Journal|Ladies' Home Journal]],'' September 17, 1919

:I don't intend that a fortune-hunting Spick shall marry my mother.--[[wikipedia:William Falkner|William Falkner]], ''Knight's Gambit'' (1946) p. 137

:‘He's a spic!’ he said. He was frantic with jealousy.--[[wikipedia:F. Scott Fitzgerald|F. Scott Fitzgerald]] ''Tender is Night'' (1953) p. 275</li>
<li>The Spanish language
:I wish I could talk spik . . . I don't get any fun out of asking that spik questions.--[[wikipedia:Ernest Hemingway|Ernest Hemingway]], ''Winner take Nothing'' (1934) p. 200</li>
</ol>
===Usage===
Usually lowercase, although sometimes capitalized

===Derived terms===
[[spic and span]] (sense 2)

==Works consulted==
Hugh Rawson, "spic(k)" ''Wicked Words,'' (1989) p. 19

John A. Simpson and Edmund S.C. Weiner, eds. "spic", ''The Oxford English Dictionary,'' 2nd ed. (1989)

Jonathon Green, "spic and span", ''The Cassell Dictionary of Slang,'' (1998) p. 390


[[Category:Ethnic slurs]]

[[fr:spic]]
[[pl:spic]]