==English==
===Pronunciation 1===
*spo͞of, /spuːf/, /<tt>spu:f</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-uːf|Rhymes: -uːf]]
*{{audio|en-us-spoof.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''spoof''' ([[spoofs]])
#A [[hoax]]
#A light [[parody]]
#[[Nonsense]]

====Synonyms====
*[[satire]]
*[[send-up]]<!-- also [[sendup]], [[send up]] ? -->

===Transitive verb===
'''to spoof''' ([[spoofs]], [[spoofed]], [[spoofing]])

#To gently [[satirize]]
#To [[deceive]]
#{{computing}} To [[falsify]].

====Synonyms====
*[[satirise]], [[satirize]]
*[[send up]]<!-- also [[send-up]] ? -->

===Pronunciation 2===
*spo͝of, /spʊf/, /<tt>spUf</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ʊf|Rhymes: -ʊf]]

===Noun===
'''spoof''' (''uncountable'')

# (''Australian slang'') [[semen]]

====Synonyms====
*[[cum]]
*[[jizz]]
*[[sprog]]

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[et:spoof]]
Questions	Web Designers	Web Editors
1.  What education is necessary for each?	Bachelor’s Degree	Bachelor’s Degree
2.  What colleges in New York State offer training and a degree in this field?  Where?	NYIT (New York Institute of Technology)	NYIT (New York Institute of Technology)
3.  What are specific duties/job responsibilities for these jobs?	Web designers are responsible for designing a web page for a certain company, and they are supposed to make their employers web pages very attractive.  This can be a very rewarding career.  	Web Editor edits a website.  He or she is responsible for correcting a mistake on any part of a web page and any part inside the web site.  This to can be a very rewarding career.  
4.  What do you think you like or dislike about these jobs?	I like this job because it is fun and it can be very rewarding.  	I dislike this job because even though it can be very rewarding, it can also get very boring.