==English==
===Noun===
'''spur''' (''plural'' spurs)
# A rigid [[implement]], often roughly y-shaped, that is fixed to one's [[heel]] for purpose of [[prod]]ding a [[horse]].  Often [[worn]] by, and [[emblematic]] of, the [[cowboy]] or the [[knight]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1598''': Lives he, good uncle? [[Thrice]] within this [[hour]] I saw him down; thrice up again, and [[fight]]ing; From [[helmet]] to the [[spur]] all [[blood]] he was. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry V'', Act IV, Scene VI, line 4.
#:*'''1786''': Two sorts of [[spur]]s seem to have been in use about the time of the Conquest, one called a [[pryck]], having only a single [[point]] like the [[gaffle]] of a fighting [[cock]]; the other consisting of a number of points of considerable length, radiating from and revolving on a center, [[thence]] named the [[rouelle]] or [[wheel spur]]. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 22.
#:'''See also'''
#:* [[rowel]]
#:* [[pryck]], [[prick]]
#:'''External links'''
#:*Wikipedia article on [[w:spur|spur]].
# Anything that prods or [[inpire]]s, as a spur does to a horse.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1601''': But, worthy Hector, She is a [[theme]] of [[honour]] and [[renown]], A [[spur]] to [[valiant]] and [[magnanimous]] [[deeds]]... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Troilus and Cressida'', Act II, Scene II, line 198. 
# An [[appendage]] or [[spike]] pointing rearward, near the [[foot]], for instance that of a [[rooster]].
# Any [[protruding]] part connected at one end, for instance a [[highway]] that extends from another highway into a city.
===Verb===
'''spur''' (spurred)

#To [[prod]] (''esp.'' a [[horse]]) in the side or [[flank]], with the intent to [[urge]] [[motion]] or [[haste]], to [[gig]].
#:''Her horse hesitated at the stream, so she spurred it across.''
#To urge or [[encourage]] to action, or to a more [[vigorous]] [[pursuit]] of an [[object]]; to [[incite]]; to [[stimulate]]; to [[instigate]]; to [[impel]]; to [[drive]].
#:Love will not be spurred to what it loathes. Shak.
#To put spurs on; as, a spurred boot.