==[[Pronunciation]]==

   \Squash\

==[[Noun]]==

1.A game much like rackets, played in a walled court with soft
rubber balls and bats like tennis rackets.

2. [Cf. {Musquash}.] (Zo["o]l.) An American animal allied to the weasel. ([[Obs.]]) --Goldsmith.

3. [Massachusetts Indian asq, pl. asquash, raw, green, immaturate, applied to fruit and vegetables which were used when green, or without cooking; askutasquash vine apple.] (Bot.)
A plant and its fruit of the genus {Cucurbita}, or gourd
kind.

Note: The species are much confused. The long-neck squash is
      called {Cucurbita verrucosa}, the Barbary or China
      squash, {C. moschata}, and the great winter squash, {C.
      maxima}, but the distinctions are not clear.

4. Something soft and easily crushed; especially, an unripe pod of pease.

         Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for a boy; as a squash is before 't is a peascod. --Shak.

5. Hence, something unripe or soft; -- used in contempt.
   ``This squash, this gentleman.'' --Shak.

6. A sudden fall of a heavy, soft body; also, a shock of soft bodies. --Arbuthnot.

         My fall was stopped by a terrible squash. --Swift
 
{Squash beetle} (Zo["o]l.), a small American beetle
   ({Diabrotica, or Galeruca vittata}) which is often
   abundant and very injurious to the leaves of squash,
   cucumber, etc. It is striped with yellow and black. The
   name is applied also to other allied species.

{Squash bug} (Zo["o]l.), a large black American hemipterous
   insect ({Coreus, or Anasa, tristis}) injurious to squash
   vines.

==[[Verb]]==

*[[imp.]] & [[p. p.]]: squashed
*[[p. pr.]] & [[vb. n.]]:Squashing

===[[Transitive]]===

To beat or press into pulp or a flat mass; to crush.