===Pronunciation===
:(US) SAMPA:/skwE@/

===Noun===
'''square''' (''plural'' '''squares''')
# (''mathematics'') A four-sided [[polygon]] with all sides [[equal]] in [[length]] and all [[angle]]s equal.
# An L- or T-shaped [[tool]] used to place objects or draw [[line]]s at [[right angle]]s.
#:Ex. [[carpenter's square]], [[try_square]], [[framing_square]]
# Open [[leisure]] space in a [[town]], often [[arborize]]d (some better definition?)
#  (''mathematics'')The second power of a [[number]].
#: ''64 is the square of 8.''
# (''slang'') A socially [[conventional]] person.
#:''Why do you always wear a tie? Don't be such a square!''
# (''British'') The symbol # on a [[telephone]].
#:''Enter your account number followed by the square key.''

====Synonyms====
*(1): [[tetragon]] (''rare'')
*(6): [[hash]], [[pound sign]] (''US'')

====Translations====
*Catalan: (1) [[quadrat]] ''m'' [[:ca:quadrat|(ca)]] 
*Czech: (1): [[čtverec]] ''m''; (4): [[druhá mocnina]] ''f''
*[[Chinese]]: [[正方型]] (zhengfangxing, zheng4fang1xing2) (1); [[广场]] (guangchang, guang3chang3) (3); [[平方]] (pingfang, ping2fang1) (4)
*Dutch: (1): [[vierkant]] ''n''
*Finnish: (1): [[neliö]], (4): [[neliö]]
*French: (1): [[carré]] ''m''; (2): [[équerre]] ''f''; (3): [[place#French|place]] ''f''; (4): carré ''m''
*German: (1): [[Quadrat]] ''n'' [[:de:Quadrat|(de)]] (1), (2): (''try square'') [[Anschlagwinkel]] ''m'', (''T-square'') [[Zeichenschiene]] ''f''; (3): [[Platz]] ''m''; (4): Quadrat ''n''; (5): [[Spießer]] ''m''
*Greek: ([[plateia]])
*{{hu}}: [[:hu:négyzet|négyzet]]
*Interlingua: (1): [[quadrato]]; (2): [[esquadra]]; (3): [[placia]]; (6): [[conventional]], [[conservator]]
*{{ga}}: [[cearnóg]]
*Italian: (1): [[quadrato]] ''m''; (3): [[piazza#Italian|piazza]] ''f''; (4): quadrato ''m''
*Japanese: (1): [[正方形]] (せいほうけい, seihōkei); (3): [[広場]] (ひろば, hiroba)
*Korean: [[정사각형]] [正四角形] (jeongsagakhyeong)
*Latin: (1): [[quadrum]], [[quadratum]]
*Polish: [[kwadrat]] (1,4) ''m'', [[skwer]] (3) ''m''
*Portuguese: (1): [[quadrado]] ''m''; (2): [[esquadro]] ''m''; (3): [[praça]] ''f''; (4): quadrado ''m''
*Romanian: (1): [[pătrat]] ''n''; (2): [[echer]] ''n''; (3): [[piaţă]] ''f''
*Slovak: (1): [[štvorec]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[kvadrat]] (1,4) ''c'', [[vinkelhake]] (2) ''c'', [[torg]] (3) ''n'', [[fyrkant]] ''c'' (6) (the same symbol on a computer keyboard might informally, somewhat jokingly, be refered to as [[brädgård]])

===Proper noun===
'''Square'''
# [[Squaresoft]].

===Transitive verb===
'''to square''' (''[[past tense]] and [[past participle]]'' '''squared''')
# To [[adjust]] (something) so that it is in [[alignment]] with something else or at a [[right angle]] to it.
# To [[resolve]] (something).
#:Ex. <i>John can <b>square</b> this question up for us.</i>
# To multiply (a number) by itself.

====Translations====
*Dutch: (2): [[oplossen]]
*French: (3): [[élever au carré]]
*German: (3): [[quadrieren]]
*Interlingua: [[quadrar]] (1); [[resolver]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[alinhar]] (1) (is there a better translation?); [[resolver]] (2)
*Swedish: [[kvadrera]] (3)

===Adjective===
'''square''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''squarer''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''squarest''')

# Shaped like a square (the polygon).
# At right angles to.
# Used in the names of units of area formed by multiplying a unit of length by itself.
#:''square metre'', ''square mile''
# Nutritious (''a square meal'').
# Socially conventional, boring.

====Translations====
*French: (1): [[carré]] ''m'', carrée ''f''; (2): [[perpendiculaire]] à; (3): carré
*German: (1): [[quadratisch]]; (2): [[rechtwinklig]]; (3): [[Quadrat]]- (''used as a prefix to form compound words; e.g. [[Quadratmeter]] = square metre''); (4): [[anständig]]; (5): [[spießig]]
*Italian: (2): [[quadrato]] ''m'', quadrata ''f''; (2): [[perpendicolare]] a; (3): quadrato
*Swedish: [[fyrkantig]] (1,5), [[vinkelrät mot]] (2), [[kvadrat-]] (3)

===Related terms===
*[[square bracket]]
*[[square centimetre]], [[square centimeter]]
*[[square deal]]
*[[square foot]]
*[[square inch]]
*[[square meal]]
*[[square metre]], [[square meter]]
*[[square mile]]
*[[square root]]
*[[square yard]]

===See also===
*[[cubic]]
*[[quadrilateral]]
*[[rectangle]]
*[[rhombus]]

[[Category:Shapes]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:square]]
[[pt:Square]]
[[fi:Square]]
[[sv:square]]