==English==

===Noun===

'''stack'''

# A large pile of hay, grain, straw, or the like, larger at the bottom than the top, sometimes covered with thatch.
# A pile of identical objects, each directly on top of the last.
#: ''Please bring me a chair from that stack in the corner.''
# A pile of poles or wood, indefinite in quantity.
# A pile of wood containing 108 cubic feet. (~3 m&sup3;)
# A [[smokestack]].
# (''computing'') A linear [[data structure]] in which the last datum stored is the first retrieved (just as the last item placed on a stack is the first one removable).
# (''computing'') A section of memory in a computer used for temporary storage of data, in which the last datum stored is the first retrieved.
# (''gaming'') The list in order of pending game actions which may be added to. From [[w: Magic: The Gathering]].
# (''slang'') A construction intended to keep [[frosh]] out of a senior's room on Caltech's [[ditch day]].
# (''geology'') Coastal landform. A large vertical column of rock in the sea.
# (''library'') Compactly spaced [[bookshelf|bookshelves]] used to house large collections of [[books]].
# Aircraft circling an airport while awaiting landing authorisation.
# A large amount of an object.
# A pile of [[rifle]]s or [[musket]]s in a cone shape.
# A vertical pipe, such as the [[funnel]] on a [[ship]].


===Verb===
'''stack'''

# To place objects or material in the form of a stack.
#: ''Please stack those chairs in the corner.''
# To place an object on a stack.
#: ''Please stack that chair on top of the others.''
# To arrange the cards in a deck in a particular manner.
#: ''This is the third hand in a row you've drawn a four-of-a-kind.  Someone is stacking the deck!''
# A type of interchange.

===Related Terms===
*[[stackable]]
*[[stacked]]
*[[unstack]]

*[[chimney stack]]
*[[protocol stack]]