==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æɡə(r)|-æɡə(r)]]

===Noun===

'''stagger'''

#An unsteady movement of the body in walking or standing, as if one were about to fall; a reeling motion; vertigo; -- often in the plural; as, the stagger of a drunken man.
#A disease of horses and other animals, attended by reeling, unsteady gait or sudden falling; as, parasitic staggers; appopletic or sleepy staggers.
#Bewilderment; perplexity.

===Verb===
'''to stagger'''

#To move to one side and the other, as if about to fall, in standing or walking; not to stand or walk with steadiness; to sway; to reel or totter.
#To cease to stand firm; to begin to give way; to fail.
#To begin to doubt and waver in purposes; to become less confident or determined; to hesitate.
#To cause to reel or totter.
#To cause to doubt and waver; to make to hesitate; to make less steady or confident; to shock.
#To arrange (a series of parts) on each side of a median line alternately, as the spokes of a wheel or the rivets of a boiler seam.
#To walk in an awkward, [[drunken]] fashion

====Translations====
'''to move to one side and the other, as if about to fall, in standing or walking'''
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[cambalear]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to begin to doubt and waver in pusposes'''
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[hesitar]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to walk in an awkward, drunken fashion'''
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[cambalear]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: tituber(4)

===See also===
*[[staggers]]

[[bg:stagger]]
[[et:stagger]]
[[fr:stagger]]
[[io:stagger]]
[[vi:stagger]]
[[zh:stagger]]