==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æɡ|-æɡ]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#The adult [[male]] of the red [[deer]] (''Cervus elaphus''), a large European species closely related to the American [[elk]], or wapiti.
#The male of certain other [[species]] of large deer.
#A [[colt]], or [[filly]].
#A romping girl.
#A castrated [[bull]]; -- called also bull stag, and bull seg. See the Note under [[Ox]].
#An outside irregular [[dealer]] in [[stock]]s, who is not a member of the [[exchange]].
#One who applies for the allotment of shares in new [[project]]s, with a view to sell immediately at a premium, and not to hold the stock.
#The European [[wren]].
#A social event held in honor of a [[groom]] on the eve of his wedding, attended by male friends of the groom, sometimes a fund-raiser.
#:''The stag will be held in the hotel's ballroom''

====Synonyms====
*(''social event''): [[bachelor party]] (''US''), [[stag do]] (''UK informal''), [[stag party]] (''UK'')

====Derived terms====
*[[stag beetle]]
*[[stag do]]
*[[stag night]]
*[[stag party]]

====Translations====

'''adult male red deer'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[благородный олень]] (blagoródnyj olén’) {{m}}, [[настоящий олень]] (nastojáščij olén’) {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''adult male deer of other species'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[олень]] (olén’) {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''colt or filly'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''romping girl'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''castrated bull'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''irregular dealer in stocks'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''one who applies for shares with a view to sell immediately at a premium'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''European wren'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''social event for a groom'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb|stag|g|ing}}

#To act as a "stag", an irregular dealer in stocks.

====Translations====

'''act as an irregular dealer in stocks'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|stag|g|ing}}

#To [[watch]]; to dog, or keep track of.

====Translations====

'''watch, keep track of'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''stag'''

#Of a man, attending a formal social function without a [[date]].
::''My brother went stag to [[prom]] because he couldn't find a date.''

====Translations====

'''of a man, attending a formal social function without a date'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[tag]]s

===See also===
*[[bachelorette party]], [[hen party]]

{{webster}}

[[ang:stag]]
[[et:stag]]
[[fr:stag]]
[[io:stag]]
[[hu:stag]]
[[vi:stag]]