Railing, Banister, Handrail is the angled part of the staircase used for handholding.  Usually on both sides of the staircase, sometimes it is put only on one side. International building code sets minimum heights as a standard. Handrails may bet continuous and is called over the post. This system connects over the top of the post and when the job is completed, it will have the look of only one single handrail all around. The most commonly used system is the post to post system; this connects each section of the handrail to a post. These posts usually have a ball or some sort of turning at the top to hold on to. 



Wooden Railings Components

•	Balustrade - the complete system of railings and spindles that prevent people from fallings over the edge of a staircase. 
•	Baluster – (also known as Spindles), they go straight up to hold the handrail and often used as decoration. Treads often require two per step, sometimes three depending on how wide the step is. 
•	Newel – Large post used to anchor handrail. It is a structural element and usually is attached at the sub floor or the floor joists. Most of the time, the manufacturer matches the turnings of the baluster to the turnings of the newel. 
•	Base rail – This is used for railing systems where a baluster does not go directly into the tread or the bull nose. It is at the same angle of the handrail and runs underneath the balusters. 
•	Volute - A handrail for the bull nose step that is shaped like a spiral.  The Fibonacci numbers (golden spiral) are used to create the shape of the volute so it is mathematically correct.
•	Turnout - Instead of a complete spiral volute, a turnout is a quarter-turn rounded end to the handrail. This is normally used when the bull 
•	nose step is not large enough for a Volute. 
•	Gooseneck - The vertical handrail that joins a sloped handrail to a higher handrail on the balcony or landing is a gooseneck.
•	Rosette - Where the handrail ends in the wall, may be trimmed by a rosette. It can also be used to extend the handrails width between the handrail and the wall. 
•	Wall brackets – Directly mounted to the wall to attach a handrail.
[[User:MiniRide|MiniRide]] 15:38, 11 October 2006 (UTC)Shawn Miller