==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/steɪk/}}
*Homophones: [[steak]]
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪk|-eɪk]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[staca]]''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[piece]] of [[wood]], usually [[long]] and [[slender]], [[pointed]] at one end so as to be easily driven into the ground as a [[support]] or [[stay]]; as, a stake to support vines, fences, hedges,  etc.
#: A sharpened stake strong Dryas found. --[[w:Dryden.|Dryden]]
#: A piece of wood driven in the ground used in the game of croquet.  The stake, often referred to as the peg, is placed in the middle of the court and is used as the finishing point after scoring 12 hoops in croquet.
# A [[stick]] [[insert]]ed [[upright]] in a [[lop]], [[eye]], or [[mortise]], at the side or end of a [[cart]], a [[flat car]], or the like, to prevent goods from [[fall off|falling off]].
# The piece of [[timber]] to which a [[martyr]] was [[affix]]ed to be [[burn]]ed.
# A small [[anvil]] usually [[furnish]]ed with a [[tang]] to enter a hole in a [[bench]] top, as used by [[tinsmith]]s, [[blacksmith]]s,  etc., for light work, punching upon, etc.
# That which is laid down as a [[wager]]; that which is staked or [[hazard]]ed; a [[pledge]].
# {{Mormon}} A [[territorial]] [[division]].
#: Every city, or stake, including a chief town and surrounding towns, has its president, with two counselors; and this president has a high council of chosen men. &mdash; Schaff-Herzog Encyc.

==== Derived terms ====
;timber used in burning by fire
* [[burn at the stake]]

;Mormonism
* [[stake of Zion]]

====Related terms====
;wager or pledge
* [[at stake]]

====Translations====
;piece of wood
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[hu]]
*Catalan: [[pal]] ''m'', [[estaca]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[鐵砧]], [[铁砧]]
*Croatian: [[kolac]] ''m''
*Czech: [[kůl]] ''m'', [[tyčka]] ''f'',  [[kolík]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[staak]]
*French: [[pieu]] ''m''
*German: [[Pfahl]] ''m'', [[Pflock]] ''m''
*Greek: [[πάσσαλος]] ''n''
*Hungarian: [[karó]]
*Italian: [[palo]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[棒]]
*Korean: [[말뚝]]
*Malay: [[galah]]
*Polish: [[pal]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[estaca]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[par]] ''m''
*Russian: [[коль]] ''m'' (kol')
*Spanish: [[estaca]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[stör]], [[påle]]
*Turkish: [[kazık]]
{{bottom}}

;timber used in burning by fire
{{top}}
* Czech: [[kůl]] {{m}}
* German: [[Marterpfahl]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
* Swedish: [[påle]]
{{bottom}}

;wager or pledge
{{top}}
{{mid}}
* Polish: [[stawka]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;Mormonism
{{top}}
* Czech: [[kůl]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
* Russian: [[коль]] ''m'' (kol')
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|stak|ing}}

#{{transitive}} To [[fasten]], [[support]], or [[defend]] with stakes; as, to stake vines or plants.
#{{transitive}} To pierce or wound with a stake. --Spectator.
#{{transitive}} To [[put at hazard]] upon the [[issue]] of [[competition]], or upon a future [[contingency]]; to wager; to pledge.
#: I'll stake yon lamb, that near the fountain plays.  --Pope.
====Related terms====
*[[stake out]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[賭]], [[赌]] (3)
*German: [[anpflocken]] (1), [[anbinden]] (1), [[hochbinden]] (1), [[pfählen]] (2)
*Italian: [[picchettare]], [[scommettere]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[estacar]]
*Russian: [[укрепить]]
*Spanish: [[estacar]]
*Serbian: [[kolac]]
*Slovenian: grmada
{{bottom}}

[[fr:stake]]
[[io:stake]]
[[it:stake]]
[[ru:stake]]
[[fi:stake]]
[[vi:stake]]
[[zh:stake]]