==English==
===Intransitive verb===
#To step quickly and heavily, once or repeatedly.
#:''The toddler screamed and stamped, but still got no candy.''

====Translations====

'''step quickly and heavily'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[taper]] du [[pied]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Transitive verb===
#To move (the foot or feet) quickly and heavily, once or repeatedly.
#:''The crowd cheered and stamped their feet in appreciation.''
#To mark by pressing quickly and heavily.
#:''This machine stamps the metal cover with a design.''
#:''This machine stamps the design into the metal cover.''
#To give an official marking to, generally by [[impress]]ing or [[imprint]]ing a design or symbol.
#:''The immigration officer stamped my passport.''
#To apply postage stamps to.
#:''I forgot to stamp this letter.''

====Synonyms====

*(''mark by pressing quickly and heavily''): [[emboss]], [[dent]]
*(''give an official marking to''): [[impress]], [[imprint]]

====Translations====

'''move (the foot or feet) quickly and heavily'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[taper]] du [[pied]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''mark by pressing quickly and heavily'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[estamper]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''give an official marking to'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[tamponner]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''apply postage stamps to'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[timbrer]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Noun===
'''stamp''' (''plural'' '''stamps''')

#An act of stamping the foot, paw or hoof.
#:''The horse gave two quick stamps and rose up on its hind legs.''
#An [[indentation]] or [[imprint]] made by stamping.
#:''My passport has quite a collection of stamps.''
#A device for stamping designs.
#:''She loved to make designs with her collection of stamps.''
#A small piece of paper bearing a design on one side and adhesive on the other, intended to be stuck to an item to be sent by [[mail]] to indicate that [[postage]] has been paid.
#:''These stamps are purely decorative.''

====Synonyms====

*(''act of stamping''):
*(''indentation or imprint made by stamping''):
*(''device for stamping designs''):
*(''paper used to indicate postage has been paid''): [[postage stamp]]

====Translations====

'''act of stamping'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''indentation or imprint made by stamping'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''device for stamping designs'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*German: [[Stempel]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''paper used to indicate postage has been paid'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[timbre#French|timbre]] ''m''
*German: [[Briefmarke]] ''f''
*Italian: [[francobollo]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[date stamp]]
*[[postage stamp]]
*[[rubber stamp]]
*[[stamp album]]
*[[stamp-collecting]]
*[[stamp duty]]
*[[stamp of approval]]
*[[stamping ground]]
*[[timestamp]]