=== Pronunciation ===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'stænd/

=== Verb ===

'''to stand''' ([[stood]], stood)

# to be upright, support oneself on the feet in an erect position
# rise ([[stand up]])
# to [[undergo]]

=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[staan]], [[opstaan]]
*[[French]]: [[être debout]], [[se lever]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[parar]], [[pararse]]

=== Examples ===
<ul>
        <li>We were standing behind the station (and talking when we noticed her).
	<li>We stood (up) as a sign of courtesy when the speaker walked in.
	<li>Once a week in school, the students stand (up) and say the Pledge of the Allegiance.
	<li>The guests are arriving any time. Don’t just stand there. We still have work to do.
	<li>Stand still! When you hear that, don’t move and stand…still (/motionless).
	<li>He’s the person who’s standing…at the bar (/near the bar).
	<li>He stood breast high amid the wheat.
	<li>He stood in front of the statue (/among the crowd) so I can take a picture of him.
	<li>Stand in front of the statue so I can take a picture of you.
	<li>I’ve sprained my ankle. I can’t stand very long.
	<li>You don’t have to stand (up) by the door. Please come in and sit down.
	<li>Handstand is when someone stands on their hands or heads with their feet up.
	<li>There are no seats available except standing room only.
	<li>She picked up the child, stood him on his feet, and consoled him.
	<li>The mother sent the misbehaved child to stand in the corner (inside the hallway).</ul>