==English==

===Etymology===
Starkish" Is more than just a word, it is on its way to becoming a cultural movement. It has emerged as a counter-cultural response to a perceived flood of visual, verbal and pop-cultural dross within urban societal frameworks.

Starkish describes various forms of art and design, especially visual art and music, where the work is stripped of its unnescessary parts, down to its most fundamental features and core self expression. It has been used to describe the comedy/drama film Junebug, works of art from New Zealand artist Dick Frizzell and fashion from Karen Walker.

There is heated debated as to who first coined this term, as no one is entirely certain as to who first used it, or what the exact definition of it is. Many popular artists and fashion labels across Australia and New Zealand have been credited with coining "Starkish", which they have used the word in the popular context that "starkish" is "tasteful" and "stylish" almost bordering on "minimalism".

The term "starkish" can also refer to anything or anyone that has been rendered starkish or expressed in a manner that is considered starkish.


===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/stɑ:k-ɪʃ/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪʃ|-ɪʃ]]

===Adjective===
'''starkish'''

# Somewhat [[stark]]

# To embody or have a good sense of taste and stylistic proportion. Expressed in the discerning rejection of unnecessary "crap" or "fluff".

===Examples of use===

* Your looking rather starkish tonight.
* That's rather starkish.


===Related terms===

*[[Stark]] 
*[[-ish]]