==English==
===Etymology===
Via Middle English and Old French from Latin [[statio]]

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-station.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪʃǝn|-eɪʃǝn]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A place where a vehicle (especially a train) may stop.
#:''The next '''station''' is Esperanza.''
# A place where one stands or stays in order to perform a task.
#:''From my '''station''' at the front door, I greeted every visitor.''
# Area of a restaurant allocated to one waiter or waitress.
# A military base.
#:''She had a boyfriend at the '''station'''.''
# A place used for [[broadcast]]ing radio or television.
#:''I used to work at a radio '''station'''.''
# A broadcasting entity.
#:''I used to listen to that radio '''station'''.''
# (''Australia & NZ'') A very large [[sheep]] or [[cattle]] farm
#:''There was movement at the '''station''', for the word had passed around, that the colt from old Regret had got away'' (A. B. Patterson, poet)

====Synonyms====
*(''broadcasting entity''): (''that broadcasts television'') [[channel]]
*(''military base''): [[base]], [[military base]]
*(''large sheep or cattle farm''): [[farm]], [[ranch]]

====Translations====
'''place where a vehicle may stop'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[محطة]]}} {{Unicode|(muħáʈʈa)}} {{f}}
*Chinese: [[站]] (zhàn)
*Dutch: station
*Finnish: [[asema]]
*French: [[gare]] {{f}}, [[station#French|station]] {{f}}
*German: [[Station]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[állomás]]
*Italian: [[stazione]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[駅]] (えき, eki)
*Korean: [[정거장]] (jeonggeojang)
*Portuguese: [[estação]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[станция]] (stántsija) {{f}}
*Slovene: [[postaja]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[estación]]
*Swedish: station
{{bottom}}

'''place where one stands or stays'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[部署]] (ぶしょ, busho)
{{bottom}}

'''military base'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[駐屯]][[地]] (ちゅうとんち, chūtonchi)
{{bottom}}

'''place used for broadcasting'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[放送]][[局]] (ほうそうきょく, hōsōkyoku)
{{bottom}}

'''broadcasting entity'''
{{top}}
*French: [[chaîne]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[canale]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[postaja]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''Australia: very large livestock farm'''
''See [[ranch]]''

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To put in place to perform a task.
#:''The host '''stationed''' me at the front door to greet visitors.''
# To put in place to perform military duty.
#:''They '''stationed''' me overseas just as fighting broke out.''

===Related terms===
{{top2}}
*[[base station]]
*[[battle station]]
*[[bus station]]
*[[cattle station]]
*[[coach station]]
*[[filling station]]
*[[fire station]]
*[[gas station]]
*[[petrol station]]
*[[police station]]
*[[power station]]
*[[radar station]]
*[[radio station]]
*[[railway station]]
*[[service station]]
*[[sheep station]]
{{mid2}}
*[[space station]]
*[[subway station]]
*[[state]]
*[[stationary]]
*[[station hand]]
*[[station master]]
*[[stations of the cross]]
*[[station wagon]]
*[[substation]]
*[[subway station]]
*[[television station]], [[TV station]]
*[[train station]]
*[[Tube station]]
*[[underground station]]
*[[way station]]
*[[weigh station]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[et:station]]
[[el:station]]
[[fr:station]]
[[io:station]]
[[id:station]]
[[it:station]]
[[hu:station]]
[[ja:station]]
[[pl:station]]
[[fi:station]]
[[ta:station]]
[[vi:station]]
[[zh:station]]