==English==
===Pronunciation===
*stem, /stem/, /<tt>stem</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɛm|Rhymes: -ɛm]]
===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[stefn]]'' (later: ''stemn'')
====Noun====
'''stem''' (pl. ''stems'')

#{{botany}} The above-ground [[stalk]] (''technically'' [[axis]]) of a vascular [[plant]], and certain anatomically similar, below-ground [[organ]]s such as [[rhizome]]s, [[bulb]]s, [[tuber]]s, and [[corm]]s.
#A narrow supporting structure on certain man-made objects, such as [[wine]] and [[champagne]] drinking [[glass]]es.
#{{linguistics}} A part of an [[uninflected]] word to which [[ending]]s may be added to form [[inflection]]s of the word.
#{{typography}} A vertical stroke of a letter.
#{{music}} A vertical stroke of a symbol representing a note in written music.
#{{nautical}} The vertical board at the bow of the boat where the planks are joined.
# {{nautical}} The vertical or nearly vertical forward extension of the [[keel]], to which the forward ends of the [[strake]]s are attached. (FM 55-501).

====Derived terms====
*[[stem cell]]
*[[brain stem]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[茎]]; [[詞根]]/[[词根]]
*Dutch: [[stam]] {{m}}, [[stengel]] {{m}}, [[steel]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[kanta]]
*French: [[tige]] {{f}} (1), [[radical]] (3)
*German: [[Wortstamm]] {{m}} (3), [[Stamm]] {{m}} (1), [[Stiel]] {{m}} (2)
*Greek: [[μίσχος]] (mískhos) {{m}}
*Hebrew: [[שורש]] (shoresh) {{m}}
*Italian: [[gambo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[茎]] ([[くき]], kukí), [[幹]] ([[みき]], mikí); [[語幹]] (ごかん, gokan)
*Korean: [[줄기]] (julgi)
*Portuguese: [[haste]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[стержень]] (stéržen’) {{m}}, [[ствол]] (stvol) {{m}}, (ling.) [[основа]] (osnóva) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[vástago]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[stam]] {{c}} (5); [[stjälk]] {{c}} (1); [[skaft]] {{n}} (2,7); [[fot]] {{c}} (3,4); [[ordstam]] {{c}} (5), [[stapel]] {{c}} (6); [[notskaft]] {{n}} (5)
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From Old Norse ''stemma''
====Verb====
'''to stem''' ([[stems]], [[stemmed]], [[stemming]])

# To descend.
# To take out the stem from a word.
# To stop, hinder (for instance, a river or blood).

====Derived terms====
*[[stem from]]

====Translations====
*Swedish: [[stamma]], [[härstamma]], [[härröra]] (1); [[härleda]], [[ta]] [[ut]] [[stam]] (2); [[stoppa]], [[hejda]], [[hindra]], [[stämma]], [[dämma]] (3)

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''stem'''

# [[voice]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

[[bg:stem]]
[[et:stem]]
[[fr:stem]]
[[io:stem]]
[[id:stem]]
[[it:stem]]
[[ku:stem]]
[[hu:stem]]
[[nl:stem]]
[[fi:stem]]
[[ta:stem]]
[[vi:stem]]
[[zh:stem]]