The Middle-English (~1000 AD) root ''stoep'' meant "unrelated by marriage (or blood)." '''A modern stepfamily''' is one which includes at least one adult (stepparent) who chooses the role of part-time or full-time caregiver for one or more prior children of their mate. In ''simple'' stepfamilies, only one re/married partner has a prior child. (The "/" notes that it may be a stepparent's first union). In ''blended'' or [http://sfhelp.org/pop2/nuc-sf.htm ''complex''] stepfamilies, both new mates have at least one living prior child, who are stepsiblings. Legal stepchild adoption, having a new "ours child," a non-custodial bioparent (ex mate) dying, all children being adults, do not change the basic identity of a stepfamily. 

One of ~60 common [http://sfhelp.org/04/myths.htm misconceptions] is that a new nuclear stepfamily lives in one house. Unless one bioparent of a stepchild is dead, typical nuclear stepfamilies are composed of three or more bioparents and stepparents ("co-parents"), living in two or more related homes - across the stress or the country.

Uninformed people often feel stepfamilies "are pretty much like intact ("traditional") biofamilies." Paradoxically, this is both [http://sfhelp.org/03/similar.htm true] and not true. Typical stepfamilies differ from intact biofamilies in over 30 [http://sfhelp.org/03/compare.htm structural ways], and have ~30 unique [http://sfhelp.org/09/sf-task1.htm adjustment tasks] to master over many years, as three or more co-parents' biofamilies [http://sfhelp.org/09/merge.htm merge] and (try to) resolve many concurrent [http://sfhelp.org/02/3_stressors.htm conflicts] and stabilize.

Typical new stepfamily adults and kids are unprepared for the stresses, confusions, and conficts caused by their complex merger process and unfamiliar [http://sfhelp.org/09/roles_rules.htm roles] and [http://sfhelp.org/10/job1.htm responsibilities]. These stresses seem to spring from [http://sfhelp.org/5-overvw.htm five basic stressors] causing about a dozen [http://sfhelp.org/10/problems.htm primary problems]. Alert single co-parents and their partnes can protect themselves and their kids from major stresses and losses by starting to work together on 12 major [http://sfhelp.org/12-overvw.htm Projects] '''''before''''' choosing to exchange vows and/or cohabiting! 

For more perspective, resources, and solutions, see this nonprofit educational [http://sfhelp.org Web site].

-- [[User:Pilgrim27|Pilgrim27]] 22:34, 31 July 2006 (UTC)