==English==
===Noun===
'''stitch''' (''plural'' '''stitches''')

#A single pass of a [[needle]] in [[sewing]]; the loop or turn of the [[thread]] thus made.
#An arrangement of stitches in sewing, or method of stitching in some particular way or style.
#:''cross stitch''
#:''herringbone stitch''
#A single turn of the thread round a needle in [[knitting]]; a link, or loop, of yarn
#:''drop a stitch''
#:''take up a stitch''
#An arrangement of stitches in knitting, or method of knitting in some particular way or style.
#A space of work taken up, or gone over, in a single pass of the needle.
#Hence, by extension, any space passed over; distance.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::You have gone a good stitch. &mdash; Bunyan.
#::In Syria the husbandmen go lightly over with their plow, and take no deep stitch in making their furrows. &mdash; Holland.
#A local sharp pain; an acute pain, like the piercing of a needle.
#:''a stitch in the side''
#:'''Quotations'''
#::He was taken with a cold and with stitches, which was, indeed, a pleurisy.              &mdash; Bp. Burnet.
#(''obsolete'') A contortion, or twist.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::If you talk, Or pull your face into a stitch again, I shall be angry.                     &mdash; Marston.
#(''colloquial'') Any least part of a fabric or dress.
#:''to wet every stitch of clothes.''
#:''She didn't have a stitch on''
#A furrow. (Chapman)
#One of the two main characters in the 2002 Disney animated film "Lilo and Stitch."

====Translations====

'''single pass of the needle in sewing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[point#French|point]] ''m''
*Italian: [[punto]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''arrangement of stitches or method of stitching in sewing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''single turn of the thread in knitting'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[point#French|point]] ''m'', [[maille]] ''f''
*Italian: [[punto]] ''m'', [[maglia]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''arrangement of stitches or method of stitching in knitting'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''space of work gone over in a single pass of the needle'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''any space passed over; distance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''local sharp pain'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''obsolete: a contortion, or twist'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''colloquial: any least part of a fabric or dress'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''furrow'''
''See [[furrow]]''

===Transitive verb===
'''to stitch''' (stitching, stitched, stitched)

#To form stitches in; especially, to sew in such a manner as to show on the surface a continuous line of stitches.
#:''to stitch a shirt bosom.''
#To sew, or unite by stitches.
#:''to stitch printed sheets in making a book or a pamphlet.''
#(''agriculture'') To form land into ridges.

====Synonyms====
*(''form stitches in''): [[sew]]
*(''unite by stitches''): [[sew]], [[sew together]], [[stitch together]]
*(''form land into ridges''): [[plough]] (''British''), [[plow]] (''US'')

====Translations====

'''form stitches in'''
''See [[sew]]''

'''unite by stitches'''
''See [[sew together]]''

'''agriculture: to form land into ridges'''
''See [[plough]]/[[plow]]''

===Intransitive verb===
'''to stitch''' (stitching, stitched, stitched)

#To [[practice]]/[[practise]] stitching or needlework.

====Synonyms====
*[[sew]]

====Translations====
''See [[sew]]''

===Related terms===
*[[blanket stitch]]
*[[cable stitch]]
*[[chain stitch]]
*[[cross stitch]]
*[[drop a stitch]]
*[[garter stitch]]
*[[herringbone stitch]]
*[[lock stitch]]
*[[moss stitch]]
*[[pearl stitch]], [[purl stitch]]
*[[rib stitch]]
*[[running stitch]]
*[[stem stitch]]
*[[stitch up]] <!--repair by stitching; (''slang'') to con-->
*[[stocking stitch]]
*[[take up a stitch]]