==English==
===Pronunciation===
*stŏk, /stɒk/, /<tt>stQk</tt>/

===Noun===
'''stock''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''stocks''')

#A store of goods ready for sale.
#:''We have a stock of televisions on hand.''
#A species of [[flower]].
#A supply of anything ready for use.
#:''Lay in a stock of wood for the winter season.''
#[[Farm]] [[animals]] or [[equipment]].
#(''also'' '''rolling stock'') [[Railroad]] [[car]]s.
#(''economics'') A [[share]] of a company.
#The part of a [[rifle]] or [[shotgun]] that rests against the shooter's [[shoulder]].
#(''nautical'') A [[bar]] going through an [[anchor]], perpendicular to the [[fluke]]s.
#(''uncountable'') [[Broth]] made from [[meat]] or [[vegetable]]s, used as a basis for [[stew]] or [[soup]].
#A wide [[necktie]] popular in the 18th century.
#An [[estimate]].
#:He took stock of the situation.

==== Translations ====

'''store of goods for sale'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*French: stock ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*German: [[Vorrat]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''species of flower'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''supply of anything ready for use'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[Vorrat]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''farm animals or equipment'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''rolling stock'''
''See'' [[rolling stock]]

'''share of a company'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*French: [[action#French|action]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*German: [[Aktie]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''part of gun'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''bar through an anchor'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''broth'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''necktie'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''estimate'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable or wrong.

*Chinese: [[股票]]
*Dutch: stock ''m'' (1), [[voorraad]] ''m'' (1, 3), [[aandeel]] ''n'' (5), [[actie]] ''f'' (5)
*French: [[réserve]] ''f'' (3)
*[[Frisian]]: [[oandiel]] (5)
*German: [[Kolben]] ''m'' (7)<!--of a gun: is this correct?-->
*Hungarian: [[bot]] <!-- not verified -->
*Indonesian: [[cadang|cadangan]], [[logistik]]?, [[saham]], [[bursa]]? <!-- not verified -->
*Japanese: [[備蓄]] ([[びちく]], bichiku), [[株]] ([[かぶ]], kabu) <!-- not verified -->
*Polish: [[asortyment]] ''m'' (1), [[zapas]] ''m'' (3), [[inwentaż]] ''m'' (4), [[akcja]] ''f'', [[udział]] ''m'' (6), [[kolba]] ''f'' (7)

===Transitive verb===
'''to stock''' ([[stocked]], [[stocking]])

#To [[have]] on hand for [[sale]].
#:The store stocks all kinds of dried vegetables.

==== Translations ====

'''have on hand for sale'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[voorradig zijn]], [[in stock hebben]], [[op stock houden]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Adjective===
'''stock''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#Normally available for [[purchase]].
#:''stock items''
#:''stock sizes''

==== Translations ====

'''normally available for purchase'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[vooradig]], [[voorradige]], [[op stock]], [[in voorraad]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[livestock]]
*[[stock performance]]
*[[stock phrase]]
*[[stock up]]
*[[take stock]]

===See also===
*[[DJIA]]

----

==German==
===Noun===
'''Stock''' ''m'' (Plural: [[Stocke]], Diminutive: [[Stöckchen]])

#[[stick]], [[staff]]
#stock <!--in which sense?-->
#[[twig]] a (thin) branch of a tree
#[[tree trunk]] (''with its roots'')
#:über Stock und Stein
#(''also'' [[Bienenstock]]) [[hive]], [[beehive]]
#[[floor]], [[storey]] (''UK''), [[story]] (''US''), [[level]]
#:''im dritten Stock'' - on the third floor

===Prefix===
'''stock-'''

#Used to emphasize emotion.
#:[[stockbesoffen]], [[stocksteif]]

===See also===
*[[steif wie ein Stock]]

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''stock''' ''c'' (''plural'' [[stockar]], ''definite singular'' [[stocken]], ''definite plural'' [[stockarna]])

#[[log]] (''trunk of a dead tree'')
#stock (''of a gun'')

[[pl:Stock]]