==English==

===Etymology===
{{ME.}} ''[[streght]]'' (Anglo Saxon ''streht''), the past participle of Middle English ''strechen'' (Anglo-Saxon ''streccan''), to stretch.

===Pronunciation===
*{{SAMPA|/streIt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-straight.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪt|-eɪt]]

===Homophones===
* [[strait]]

===Adjective===
'''straight''' ({{compar}}: '''[[straighter]]''', {{superl}}: '''[[straightest]]''')

# Not crooked or bent; having a constant direction throughout its length.
#: ''a '''straight''' line''.
# Strictly along political lines.
#: ''He always votes a '''straight''' ticket''.
# Direct, truthful, frank.
#: ''a '''straight''' answer''.
# As it should be.
#: ''Everything is '''straight''' now''.
# Undiluted.
#: '''''straight''' whiskey.''
# Having all cylinders in a single row. (referring to an internal combustion engine)
#: ''a '''straight''' six.''
# ''[[slang]]'': conventional.
# ''[[slang]]'': heterosexual.
# ''[[slang]]'': boring, unappealing, bad or of low quality.
# {{cricket}} On, or near a line running between the two [[wicket]]s.

====Usage notes====
* Straight is sometimes humorously used as meaning low quality by homosexuals and bisexuals, rather than [[gay]].

====Translations====

{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[مستقيم]]}} {{Unicode|(mustaqí:m)}}
*Chinese: [[直]]的 (zhí de), [[笔直的]] (bǐzhí de)
*Dutch: [[recht]] (1), [[rechte]] (1), [[zoals het hoort]] (3), [[puur]] (5), [[pure]] (5)
*Finnish: [[suora]]
*French: [[droit]] {{m}} (1), [[droite]] {{f}} (1), [[comme il faut]] (3), [[pur]] (5), [[pure]] (5), [[hetero]] (8)
*German: [[gerade]] (1), [[hetero]] (8)
*Greek: [[ίσια]] (ísia)
*Hungarian: [[egyenes]] (1,3), [[őszinte]] (3), [[heteró]] (8)
*Icelandic: [[beinn]] (1)
*Irish: [[díreach]] (1,8)
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[diritto]], [[liscio]], [[subito]], [[eterosessuale]] (8)
*Japanese: [[真直ぐな]] (まっすぐな, massuguna)
*Korean: [[똑바른]] (ggokbareun)
*Portuguese: [[reto]] {{m}} (1), [[direto]] {{m}} (3), [[honesto]] {{m}} (3), [[direito]] {{m}} (4)
*Russian: [[прямой]] (prjamój)
*Spanish: [[derecho]]
*Swedish: [[rak]] (1,3,6)
*[[Telugu]]: [[తిన్నని]] (tinnani), [[సరళమైన]] (saraLamaina), [[సూటి]] (sooTi)
*Welsh: [[uniawn]]
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''straight''' ({{compar}}: '''[[straighter]]''', {{superl}}: '''[[straightest]]''')

# In a forward direction.
#: '''''straight''' ahead''

====Translations====

{{top}}
*Chinese: [[直]] (zhí), [[直接地]] (zhíjiē de)
*Dutch: [[rechtdoor]]
*French: [[tout droit]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[geradeaus]]
*Swedish: [[rakt fram]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[తిన్నగా]] (tinnagaa), [[సూటిగా]] (sootigaa)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A part of a racecourse or running track that is not curved.
# In poker, five cards in sequence.

====Translations====

{{top}}
*Dutch: [[straat]]
*French: [[ligne droite]] {{f}} (1), [[quinte]] {{f}} (2)
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[reta]] {{f}} (1)
*Swedish: [[raksträcka]] {{c}} (1), [[raka]] {{c}} (1), [[stege]] {{c}} (2)
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English homophones]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:straight]]
[[io:straight]]
[[it:straight]]
[[hu:straight]]
[[fi:straight]]
[[ta:straight]]
[[zh:straight]]