==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æp|-æp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A long, [[narrow]], [[pliable]] [[strip]] of [[leather]], cloth, or the like; specifically, a strip of thick leather used in [[flogging]].
#: ''A lively cobbler that . . . had scarce passed a day without giving her [his wife] the discipline of the strap.''  --Addison.
# Something made of such a [[strip]], or of a part of one, or a combination of two or more for a particular use.
# A piece of leather, or strip of wood covered with a suitable material, for [[sharpening]] a [[razor]]; a [[strop]].
# A narrow strip of anything, as of iron or brass. Specifically:
#*(''carpentry & machinery'') A band, plate, or loop of metal for clasping and holding timbers or parts of a machine.
#*{{nautical}} A piece of rope or metal passing around a block and used for fastening it to anything.
# {{botany}}:
#*The flat part of the corolla in ligulate florets, as those of the white circle in the daisy.
#*The leaf, exclusive of its sheath, in some grasses.
# A shoulder strap, see under [[Shoulder]].
# {{slang}} A gun, normally a personal firearm such as a [[pistol]] or [[machine pistol]].

===Derevied Terms===
* [[boot strap]]
* [[shawl strap]] 
* [[stirrup strap]]
* [[strapless]]

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To beat or [[chastise]] with a strap.
# To [[fasten]] or bind with a strap.
# To [[sharpen]] by rubbing on a strap, or strop; as, to strap a razor.

[[fr:strap]]
[[io:strap]]
[[it:strap]]
[[fi:strap]]
[[vi:strap]]
[[zh:strap]]