==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛtʃ|-ɛtʃ]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|stret|ch|es}}

# {{transitive}} To lengthen by pulling.
#: ''I '''stretched''' the rubber band until it almost broke.''
# {{transitive}} To pull tight.
#: ''First, '''stretch''' the skin over the frame of the drum.''
# {{transitive}} To get more use than expected from a limited resource.
#: ''I managed to '''stretch''' my coffee supply a few more days.''
# {{transitive}} To try to make too much of.
#: ''To say crossing the street was brave is '''stretching''' the meaning of "brave" considerably.''
# {{intransitive}} To lengthen when pulled.
#: ''The rubber band '''stretched''' almost to the breaking point.''
# {{intransitive}} To extend one’s limbs or body in order to stretch the muscles.
#: ''I woke up, yawned and '''stretched.'''''

====Translations====
'''lengthen by pulling'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[تمدد]]}} {{Unicode|(tamáddada)}}
*Chinese: [[伸張]], [[伸张]] (shēnzhāng)
*Dutch: [[strekken]]
*Esperanto: [[streĉi]]
*Finnish: [[venyttää]]
*French: [[étendre]]
*German: [[strecken]]
*Hungarian: [[kinyújtani]], [[kifeszíteni]]
*Italian: [[tendere]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[伸ばす]] (のばす, nobasu)
*Korean: [[펴다]] (pyeoda)
*Old English: [[þennan]]
*Portuguese: [[esticar]]
*Russian: [[вытягивать]] (vytjágivat’)
*Spanish: [[estirar]]
*Swedish: [[sträcka]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[సాగదీయు]] (saagadeeyu)
{{bottom}}

'''pull tight'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[pingottaa]], [[venyttää]]
{{mid}}
*Old English: [[þennan]]
{{bottom}}

'''get more than expected from a limited resource'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[venyttää]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[strecken]]
{{bottom}}

'''try to make too much of'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[liioitella]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''lengthen when pulled'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[venyä]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[estirarse]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[సాగు]] (saagu)
{{bottom}}

'''extend one’s limbs or body in order to stretch the muscles'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[venytellä]]
*French: [[distendre]]
{{mid}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఒళ్ళు విరుచుకొను]] (oLLu viruchukonu)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

# An act of stretching. <!-- but not in all senses? -->
#: ''I was right in the middle of a '''stretch''' when the phone rang.''
#: ''To say crossing the street was brave was quite a '''stretch.'''''

# The ability to lengthen when pulled.
#: ''That rubber band has quite a bit of '''stretch.'''''

# A [[segment]] of a [[journey]] or [[route]].
#: ''It was an easy trip except for the last '''stretch''', which took forever.''
# {{baseball}} A quick pitching delivery used when runners are on base where the pitcher slides his leg instead of lifting it.
# {{baseball}} A long reach in the direction of the ball with a foot remaining on the base by a first baseman in order to catch the ball sooner.

====Translations====
'''act of stretching'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[venyttely]] (''stretching body''), [[liioittelu]] (''stretching eg. truth'')
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''ability to lengthen when pulled'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kimmoisuus]], [[venyvyys]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''segment of a journey or route'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[osuus]]
*German: [[Strecke]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[trecho]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[by a long stretch]]
*[[outstretch]]
*[[overstretch]]
*[[seventh inning stretch]]
*[[stretch limo]]
*[[stretch of the imagination]]
*[[stretch mark]]
*[[stretch out]]
*[[stretch pants]]
*[[stretcher]]
*[[stretchy]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:stretch]]
[[io:stretch]]
[[it:stretch]]
[[hu:stretch]]
[[nl:stretch]]
[[pt:stretch]]
[[fi:stretch]]
[[zh:stretch]]