==English==
===Noun===
'''stress''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''stresses''')

#(''countable'') A force applied to a body or structure that causes [[strain]] or [[deform]]ation.
#(''uncountable'') Emotional pressure suffered by a human being or other animal.
#(''uncountable''; ''phonetics'') The emphasis placed on a syllable of a word.
#:''Some people put the stress on the first syllable of "controversy"; others put it on the second.''
#(''uncountable'') Emphasis placed on words in speaking.
#(''uncountable'') Emphasis placed on a particular point in an argument or discussion (whether spoken or written).

====Synonyms====

*(''phonetics''): [[accent]], [[emphasis]]
*(''on words in speaking''): [[emphasis]]
*(''on a point''): [[emphasis]]

====Translations====

'''force'''
{{top}}
*Greek: [[ένταση]] [ˈe̞(n)daˌsi] ''f'', [[σφοδρότητα]] [sfo̞ˈðro̞tiˌta] ''f'', [[ισχύς]] [iˈsçis] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''emotional pressure'''
{{top}}
*French: stress ''m''
*German: Stress ''m''
*Greek: [[άγχος]] [ˈaŋxo̞s] ''n'', [[υπερένταση]] [ipe̞ˈre̞(n)daˌsi] ''f'', [[στρες]] [stre̞s] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Italian: stress ''m''
*Thai: {{THchar|[[ความเครียด]]}}
{{bottom}}

'''on a syllable'''
{{top}}
*Greek: [[τόνος]] [ˈto̞no̞s] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''when speaking'''
{{top}}
*Greek: [[τονισμός]] [to̞niˈzmo̞s] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''on a point in an argument'''
{{top}}
*Greek: [[έμφαση]] [ˈe̞ɱfasi] ''f'', [[τονισμός]] [to̞niˈzmo̞s] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''to stress''' (stressing, stressed)

#To apply force to (a body or structure) causing strain.
#To apply emotional pressure to (a person or animal).
#To emphasise (a syllable of a word).
#:''"Emphasis" is stressed on the first syllable, but "emphatic" is stressed on the second.''
#To emphasise (words in speaking).
#To emphasise (a point) in an argument or discussion.
#:''I must stress that this information is given in strict confidence.''

====Translations====

'''apply force to, causing strain'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''apply emotional pressure to'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''emphasise (a syllable)'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''emphasise (words in speaking)'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''emphasise (a point)'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

====Synonyms====

*(''phonetics''): [[emphasise]]/[[emphasize]]
*(''on words in speaking''): [[emphasise]]/[[emphasize]]
*(''on a point''): [[emphasise]]/[[emphasize]], [[underline]]

===Adjective===
'''stress'''
#showing signs of stress<!--this is "stressed", isn't it?-->

===Derived terms===
*[[stressed]]<!--adjective-->
*[[stress out]]

[[fr:stress]]
[[it:stress]]
[[nl:stress]]
[[pt:Stress]]
[[fi:stress]]