==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*/strɪŋ/, /strIN/

===Noun===
{{en-noun|string|strings}}

#(''countable'') A long, thin and flexible structure made from [[thread]]s twisted together.
#(''uncountable'') Such a structure considered as a substance.
#(''countable'') Any long, thin and flexible object.
#:''a violin string''
#(''countable'') A cohesive substance taking the form of a string.
#:''The string of spittle dangling from his chin was most unattractive''
#(''countable'') A series of items or events.
#:''a string of successes''
#(''countable'') (''computer science'') A sequence of [[character]]s stored consecutively in [[memory]] and capable of being processed as a single entity.
#('''strings'''; ''plural'') (''music'') Collectively, the stringed instruments in an orchestra.
#('''strings'''; ''plural'') Conditions, especially undesirable ones.
#:''It looks like a good offer, but there are strings attached.''

====Synonyms====
*(long, thin structure): [[cord]], [[rope]], [[line]]
*(this structure as a substance): [[cord]], [[rope]], [[twine]]
*(anything long and thin):
*(cohesive substance in the form of a string):
*(series of items or events): [[sequence]], [[series]]
*(sequence of characters in computing):
*(stringed instruments): [[string section]]
*(conditions): [[condition]]s, [[proviso]]s

====Translations====
'''long, thin structure'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[corde]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[cordel]], [[mecate]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[sträng]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''this structure as a substance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[corde]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[sträng]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''anything long and thin'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''cohesive substance in the form of a string'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[sträng]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''series of items or events'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[suite]] ''f'', [[série]] ''f''
*Italian: [[serie]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[serie]] ''c'', [[följd]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''sequence of characters in computing'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[chaîne de caractères]] ''f''
*Italian: [[stringa]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[sträng]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''stringed instruments'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''conditions'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Verb===
{{irregverb|'''to string'''|'''[[strings]]'''|'''[[strung]]'''|'''[[strung]]'''|'''[[stringing]]'''}}

#''(transitive)'' To put (items) on a string.
#:''You can string these beads on to this cord to make a colorful necklace''
#''(transitive)'' To put strings on (something).
#:''It is difficult to string a tennis racket properly''

====Synonyms====
*(put on a string): [[thread]]
*(put strings on):

====Translations====

'''put on a string'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[enfiler]]
*Dutch: [[rijgen]], [[aaneenrijgen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''put strings on'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[stränga]]
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[cosmic string]]
*[[heartstrings]]
*[[string along]]
*[[string band]]
*[[string quartet]]
*[[string up]]
*[[string vest]]
*[[stringy]]

[[fr:string]]
[[it:string]]
[[pt:string]]
[[ru:string]]
[[fi:string]]
[[zh:string]]