===Etymology===
From [[strip]] and [[off]]

===Verb===

to strip off (third-person singular simple present [[strips off]], present participle [[stripping off]], simple past [[stripped off]], past participle [[stripped off]])

# {{italbrac|transitive}} To remove anything by [[strip]]ping, e.g. items of clothing or paint from the side of a ship.
#*'''1713:''' Alexander Pope translation of Homer ''Odyssey'' read at [http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/3160 Project Gutenberg]
#*:'''Strip off''' thy garments; Neptune's fury brave /With naked strength, and plunge into the wave.
#*'''2006:''' James Mills Hill, ''I Have Been Blessed!: Hard Work and Happiness''
#*:We cut down pine trees and then had to '''strip off''' all the bark.
#*'''2006:''' James P. Lewis, ''Project Planning, Scheduling & Control, A Hands-On Guide to Bringing Projects in on Time and on Budget, fourth edition
#*:In addition, if you '''strip off''' the overtime, you can't tell that you have problems, as was shown at the beginning of this chapter.
#*'''2006:''' William Scarborough, ''Baked Alaskan''
#*:Victor sat on a rock and tried to '''strip off''' his waders, his body shaking so much that he couldn't get a decent grip.
# {{italbrac|intransitive}} {{cattag|UK|idiom}} To remove all of one's clothes (or sometimes to remove all except underclothes, or figuratively).
#*'''1847:''' John Sanderson, ''The American in Paris''
#*:Your trees of Pine Hill, which persevere in being green the year round, do not please so much as those which '''strip off''' in November,and put on their green and flowery robes in April.
#*'''1871:''' Clinton Carter Hutchinson, ''Resources of Kansas: Fifteen Years Experience''
#*:A night when you '''strip off''' and sit down to gasp and pant for a breath of air; such a night is never experienced in Kansas.
#*'''2006:''' Ernest Millington, ''Was That Really Me?''
#*:I cannot remember whose idea it was that we should '''strip off''' to our underclothing and go into the coolness of the stream.
#*'''2006:''' Mike Edwards, ''Friendly Fire''
#*:The other recruits started to undress where they stood but Ledanseur was too embarrassed to '''strip off''' in front of his new comrades. He went into the shower block and undressed there.
# {{italbrac|intransitive}} To be removed by stripping
#*'''1864:''' Robert Jennings, ''Sheep, Swine, and Poultry''
#*:The feathers '''strip off''' much more easily and cleanly while the bird is yet warm.
#*'''2005:''' Chris Baines, ''How To Make A Wildlife Garden''
#*:On an old plant, this tends to '''strip off''' in long, tough, stringy lumps, a bit like short lengths of raffia.