==English==

===Etymology===
Middle English from Old English *''strāc'', an unattested noun on the basis of the verb ''[[strācian]]''

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
{{en-noun}}

#An act of stroking.
#:''She gave the cat a stroke.''
#A blow.
#A line drawn with a pen or pencil.
#A streak of paint made with a brush.
#The time when a clock [[strike]]s.
#:''on the stroke of midnight''
#A thrust of a [[piston]].
#A particular way of swimming.
#(''medicine'') The loss of [[brain function]] arising when the [[blood supply]] to the [[brain]] is suddenly interrupted.
# A single movement with a [[tool]].
# A single act of [[striking]] with a [[weapon]].
# In [[golf]], a single act of striking at the ball with a club.
# In [[tennis]], the hitting of a ball with a racket, or the movement of the racket and arm that produces that impact.
# In [[rowing]], the movement of an oar or paddle through water, either the ''pull'' which actually propels the vessel or a single entire cycle of movement including the pull.
# In [[professional wrestling]], backstage influence.
#{{cricket}} The action of [[hitting]] the [[ball]] with the [[bat]]; a [[shot]]

=====Synonyms=====
*(medical sense): [[cerebrovascular accident]], [[CVA]]
*(made with a pen): [[stroke of the pen]]
*(made with a brush): [[brushstroke]]

=====Translations=====

'''act of stroking'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[aaien]]
*French: [[caresse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[carezza]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''blow'''
{{top}}
*French: [[coup#French|coup]] {{m}}
*German: [[Schlag]] {{m}}, [[Hieb]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[colpo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''line drawn with a pen or pencil'''
{{top}}
*French: [[trait#French|trait]] {{m}}
*German: [[Strich]] {{m}}, ''seldom:'' [[Zug]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[tratto]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''streak made with a brush'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Strich]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''time when a clock strikes'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[klokslag]] {{m}}
*German: [[Schlag]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[פעימה]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''thrust of piston'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''way of swimming'''
{{top}}
*French: [[brasse]] {{f}}
*German: [[Zug]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[חתירה]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''loss of brain function'''
{{top}}
*French: [[accident vasculaire cérébral]] {{m}}, [[attaque cérébrale]] {{f}}
*German: [[Schlag]] {{m}}, [[Schlaganfall]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[שבץ מוחי]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[strācian]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/stroʊk/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-əʊk|-əʊk]]

====Transitive verb====
{{en-verb|strok|ing}}

#To [[move]] the hand over the surface of (something) in one direction.
#{{cricket}} To [[hit]] the ball with the bat in a flowing motion

=====Translations=====
'''to move the hand over the surface'''
{{top}}
*French: [[caresser]]
*Italian: [[accarezzare]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[なでる]] (naderu)
{{bottom}}

'''cricket: to hit the ball with the bat'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[at a stroke]], [[at one stroke]]
*[[backstroke]]
*[[breaststroke]]
*[[brushstroke]]
*[[butterfly stroke]]
*[[different strokes for different folks]]
*[[four-stroke engine]]
*[[government stroke]]
*[[keystroke]]
*[[stroke of genius]]
*[[stroke of luck]]
*[[stroke of work]]
*[[two-stroke engine]] <!--Spanish: **Two stroke [[engine]]: motor de dos tiempos-->
*[[w:Stroke|Wikipedia article on strokes in the medical sense]]

[[fr:stroke]]
[[io:stroke]]
[[it:stroke]]
[[pt:stroke]]
[[fi:stroke]]
[[zh:stroke]]