==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-stub.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
# Something cut short, blunted, or stunted:  '''a.''' A short remaining piece of a trunk or stem of a tree, bush, etc. created as a result of cutting, wind damage, etc.  '''b.''' A shortened or blunted item made that way as a result of a part being broken off or being worn down from intensive use.  Often used in reference to writing instruments, such as ''pencil stub'' or ''a stubby quill pen with a short, blunt writing point''.
# A piece of certain paper items, designed to be torn off and kept for record or identification purposes:  ''check stub'', ''ticket stub'', ''payment stub''.
# A placeholder article on [[Wikipedia]] or any other [[Wikimedia]] project, which provides generally rudimentary information about a topic slated for further expansion. <!-- should probably come last :) -->

====Translations====
* Dutch: [[stompje]] (1), [[beginnetje]] (3)
* Finnish: [[kanto]] (1a), [[tynkä]] (1b,3), [[kanta]] (2)
* French: [[souche]] (1a,2)
* {{na}}: [[kadudu]] (3)
* [[Spanish]]: [[w:es:esbozo|esbozo]].

===Verb===
# To remove most of a tree, bush, etc. by cutting it close to the ground.
# '''a.''' To remove a plant by pulling it out by the roots.  '''b.''' To clear land through such pulling out by the roots.
# to [[jam]] or [[hit]], especially of a [[toe]]
#:''I '''stubbed''' my toe trying to find the light switch in the dark.''
# (''neologism'') To add a stub [[Wikipedia:Template messages|template]] to a Wikipedia article (noun-3).

====Translations====
* Dutch: [[wieden]] (2)

[[ru:Stub]]