{{see|sta|sta'}}

==Danish==
===Etymology===
Old Norse ''[[standa]]''
===Verb===
'''stå'''

# to [[stand]]

[[Category:Danish verbs]]

----

==Norwegian==
===Verb===
{{no-verb|'''stå'''|'''[[står]]'''|'''[[sto]]'''|'''[[stått]]'''}}
#to [[stand]]

----
==Swedish==
{{sv-verb|stå|står|stod|stått|stå|stående|stånden}}
===Verb===

'''stå'''

#[[stand]]; be in an [[upright]] position
#:'''1904''':[[w:Selma Lagerlöf|Selma Lagerlöf]] [http://runeberg.org/herrarne/14.html ''Herr Arnes penningar''] - Då sir Archie gick förbi Elsalill, lade han sin hand på hennes för att få veta om det verkligen var en död, som '''stod''' där.
#::"When sir Archie passed Elsalill he put his hand on hers to make sure if it really was a dead one that was standing there."
#:'''1930''':[[w:Agnes von Krusenstjerna|Agnes von Krusenstjerna]] [http://runeberg.org/kvinngat/14.html ''Kvinnogatan''] - En dag hade de '''stått''' över de ångande baljorna och gnott kläderna, heta i ansiktena av den varma och fuktiga luften. 
#::"One day they had been standing over the steaming tubs scrubbing the clothes with their faces hot from the warm and humid air."
#(''of machinery'') be at a [[standstill]], not be [[run]]ning
#(''of events'') be [[held]], [[take place]], [[happen]]
#:'''1906''':[[w:Selma Lagerlöf|Selma Lagerlöf]] [http://runeberg.org/nilsholg/k46a.html ''Nils Holgerssons underbara resa''] - "Vad '''står''' nu på?" frågade förargåsen.
#::"'Now what is up?' asked the leader goose."
#be [[written]] down
#:'''1912''':[[w:August Strindberg|August Strindberg]] [http://runeberg.org/strindbg/etthalvt.html ''Ett halvt ark papper''] - Där '''stod''' det, hela denna vackra historia, som avspeglats på den korta tiden av två år; allt han ville glömma '''stod''' där; ett stycke mänskoliv på ett halvt ark papper.
#::"There it was written, this entire beautiful story that had taken place in just two short years; all he wanted to forget was written there; a piece of a human life on half a sheet of paper.

====Usage notes====
The verb '''stå''' is often used in constructions such as ''stå och <another verb>''. These constructions impart some of the same sense that is commonly expressed in English through the use of a present participle, that is they show that it is an ongoing activity. The standing as such is a minor issue:
*Vad står du och glor på? - What are you staring at?
*Han bara står och mumlar. - He is just mumbling.

Note that the verbs [[sitta]] (to [[sit]]) and [[ligga]] (to [[lie down]]) may be used in a similar manner if the activitity is taking place sitting or lying down.

====Derived terms====
*[[stå upp]]
*[[stå upp för]]
*[[stånd]]
*[[ställa]]

[[Category:Swedish verbs]]

[[fr:stå]]
[[hy:stå]]
[[hu:stå]]
[[fi:stå]]
[[sv:stå]]
[[zh:stå]]