==English==

===Verb===

'''to subscribe'''

#To write underneath, as one's name; to sign (one's name) to a document.
#To sign with one's own hand; to give consent to, as something written, or to bind one's self to the terms of, by writing one's name beneath; as, parties subscribe a covenant or contract; a man subscribes a bond.
#To attest by writing one's name beneath; as, officers subscribe their official acts, and secretaries and clerks subscribe copies or records.
#To promise to give, by writing one's name with the amount; as, each man subscribed ten dollars.
#To sign away; to yield; to surrender.
#To declare over one's signature; to publish.
#To sign one's name to a letter or other document.
#To give consent to something written, by signing one's name; hence, to assent; to agree.
#To become surely; -- with for.
#To yield; to admit one's self to be inferior or in the wrong.
#To set one's name to a paper in token of promise to give a certain sum.
#To enter one's name for a newspaper, a book, etc.

====Translations====
;To write underneath, as one's name (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[allekirjoittaa]]
{{mid}}
*Icelandic: [[að undirrita]]
{{bottom}}

;To sign with one's own hand (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[allekirjoittaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To attest by writing one's name beneath (3)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To promise to give, by writing one's name with the amount (4)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[lahjoittaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to surrender (5)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to publish (6)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To sign one's name to a letter or other document (7)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to agree (8)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To become surely (9)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to admit one's self to be inferior or in the wrong (10)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To set one's name to a paper in token of promise to give a certain sum (11)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To enter one's name for a newspaper, a book, etc. (12)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tilata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[io:Subscribe]]
[[it:subscribe]]