==English==
===Etymology===
Anglo-Norman [[siute]], from Old French [[sieute]] (modern [[suite]]), originally a participle adjective from vulgar Latin ''*sequita'', from Latin [[sequi]] ‘follow’.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/su:t/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːt|-uːt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Pursuit
## {{law}} The attempt to gain an end by legal process; a process instituted in a court of law for the recovery of a right or claim; a [[lawsuit]].
##: ''If you take my advice, you'll file '''suit''' against him immediately.''
## {{italbrac-colon|obsolete}} The act of following or pursuing; [[pursuit]], [[chase]].
## ''(obsolete)'' The act of suing; the [[pursuit]] of a particular object or goal.
##: ''Thenceforth the '''suit''' of earthly conquest shone.'' —Spenser.
## Pusuit of a love-interest; [[wooing]], [[courtship]].
##: ''Rebate your loves, each rival '''suit''' suspend, Till this funereal web my labors end.'' —Pope.
## ''(archaic)'' A company of attendants or followers; a [[retinue]].
# Set, series
## ''(archaic)'' A group of similar or related objects or items considered as a whole; a [[suite]] (of rooms etc.).
## The full set of sails required for a ship.
## A set of clothes to be worn together, now especially a man's matching jacket and trousers, or a similar outfit for a woman.
##:''Nick hired a navy-blue '''suit''' for the wedding.''
## ''(slang)'' A person who wears the clothes in 3.
## A full set of armour.
## {{italbrac-colon|card games}} Each of the sets of a pack of cards distinguished by color and/or specific emblems, such as the [[spades]], [[hearts]], [[diamonds]]{{,}} or [[clubs]] of traditional Anglo, Hispanic{{,}} and French playing cards.
##: ''To deal and shuffle, to divide and sort Her mingled '''suits''' and sequences.'' —Cowper.
## {{italbrac-colon|obsolete}} Regular order; succession.
##: ''Every five and thirty years the same kind and '''suit''' of weather comes again.'' —Bacon.

====Translations====
'''suit of clothes'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[بذلة]]}} (bádla) {{f}}
*Chinese: [[套裝]] (tàozhuāng)
*Dutch: [[kostuum]]
*Finnish: [[puku]], [[kävelypuku]]
*French: [[complet]] {{m}}
*German: [[Anzug]] {{m}}
*Hebrew: [[חליפה]] (halifa) {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[öltöny]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[vestito]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[洋服一そろい]] (ようふくひとそろい, yōfuku hitosoroi)
*Korean: [[양복]] (yangbok)
*Portuguese: [[terno]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[костюм]] (kostjúm) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[traje]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[kostym]]
{{bottom}}

'''card game category'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[färg]], [[svit]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
*[[birthday suit]]
*[[bring suit]]
*[[follow suit]]
*[[out of suits]]
*[[shell suit]]
*[[suit and service]]
*[[suit broker]]
{{mid}}
*[[suit court]]
*[[suit covenant]]
*[[suit custom]]
*[[suit service]]
*[[swimsuit]]
*[[tracksuit]]
*[[zoot suit]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[fit]]; to [[adapt]]; to make proper or suitable; as, to suit the action to the word. —Shak.
# To be fitted to; to accord with; to become; to befit.
#: ''Ill '''suits''' his cloth the praise of railing well.'' —Dryden.
#: ''Raise her notes to that sublime degree Which '''suits''' song of piety and thee.'' —Prior.
# To dress; to clothe.
#: ''So went he '''suited''' to his watery tomb.'' —Shak.
# To please; to make content; as, he is well suited with his place; to suit one’s taste.
# {{intransitive}}: To agree; to accord; to be fitted; to correspond; — usually
followed by with or to.
#: ''The place itself was '''suiting''' to his care.'' —Dryden.
#: ''Give me not an office That '''suits''' with me so ill.'' —Addison.

====Translations====
'''To be fitted to'''
*French: [[convenir]]
*German: [[passen]]
*Spanish: [[convenir]]

'''To please, to make content'''
*French: [[convenir]]

====Synonyms====
*''to agree:'' [[agree]], [[match]], [[answer]]

----
==French==

===Verb form===
'''suit'''
# ''[[third-person singular]] [[present]] [[indicative]] form of '''[[suivre]]'''''

[[Category:French verb forms]]

[[el:suit]]
[[fr:suit]]
[[io:suit]]
[[it:suit]]
[[hu:suit]]
[[fi:suit]]
[[ta:suit]]
[[vi:suit]]