{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
# From {{ME.}} ''[[summe]]'' < {{OF.}} < {{L.}} ''[[summa]]'' < {{L.}} feminine of ''[[summus]]'' "[[highest]]".
# From Uzbek.

===Homophones===
*[[some]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# a quantity obtained by [[addition]] or [[aggregation]]
# (''plural'': '''sums'''): an arithmetic problem, especially one posed to a [[student]] (not nessarily limited to [[addition]])
# a quantity of money
# a summary
# a central idea or point
# the utmost degree
# {{obsolete}} an old English measure of corn equal to the [[quarter]]
#*'''1882''': The '''sum''' is also used for the quarter, and the strike for the bushel. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 4, p. 207.

====Synonyms====
*(''quantity obtained by addition or aggregation''): [[amount]], [[sum total]], [[summation]], [[total]], [[totality]]
*(''quantity of money''): [[amount]], [[amount of money]], [[sum of money]]
*(''summary''): ''See'' '''[[summary]]'''
*(''central idea or point''): [[center]], [[core]], [[essence]], [[gist]], [[heart]], [[heart and soul]], [[inwardness]], [[kernel]], [[marrow]], [[meat]], [[nub]], [[nitty-gritty]], [[pith]] [[substance]]
*(''utmost degree''): ''See'' '''[[summit]]'''
*(''obsolete: old English measure of corn''): [[quarter]]

====Translations====

'''quantity obtained by addition or aggregation'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[summa]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''''plural'': arithmetic problem'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[matematikexempel]] {{n}}, [[matematikuppgift]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''quantity of money'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[belopp]] {{n}}, [[summa]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''summary'''
:''See'' '''[[summary]]'''

'''central idea or point'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[kontenta]] {{c}}, [[kärna]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''utmost degree'''
:''See'' '''[[summit]]'''

'''''obsolete'': old English measure of corn'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[summa, ae]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[som]] {{f}} (1,2), [[rekensom]] {{f}} (3)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Summe]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[summa]]
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[laskutehtävä]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[somme]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[మొత్తం]] (mottaM)
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[కూడిక]] (kUDika)
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[లెక్క]] (lekka)

===Noun===
'''sum'''
# the basic unit of money in [[Kyrgyzstan]].
# the basic unit of money in [[Uzbekistan]].

====Translations====

'''basic unit of money in Kyrgyzstan'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[som]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''basic unit of money in Uzbekistan'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[som]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|sum||m}}

#to [[add]] together
#to give a summary of

====Synonyms====
*(''to [[add]] together''): [[add]], [[add together]], [[add up]], [[sum up]], [[summate]], [[tally]], [[tot]], [[tot up]], [[total]], [[tote up]]
*(''to give a summary of''): ''See'' '''[[summarize]]'''

====Translations====
'''to add together'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[optellen]], [[bijeentellen]]
*Finnish: [[summata]], [[ynnätä]] (''old''), [[laskea yhteen]]
*German: [[summieren]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[addera]], [[summera]]
{{bottom}}

'''to give a summary of'''
:''See'' '''[[summarize]]'''

----

==Latin==
[[Category:Latin language]]

The Latin verb, that has no morphological relation with the English " to be" nor with the semanthic sphere of the words "summa" and eng. "sum" with the others not romance attestations, develops as it follows:   

===Verb===
'''sum''', infinitive '''[[esse]]''', perfect '''[[fui]]''', participle '''[[futurus]]'''
First person singular, present indicative active of ''[[esse]]'', '''to be'''.
# I [[am]], I [[exist]]
#: ''Cogito, ergo sum'' : I think, therefore I am (Ren&eacute;e Descartes).

====Conjugation====
<table border=1>
<tr><th>  <th>Present

indicative<th>Future

indicative
<th>Imperfect

indicative.<th>Perfect

indicative<th>Future perfect

indicative<th>Pluperfect

indicative</tr>
<tr><td>1st p.</td><td>sum</td><td>ero</td><td>eram</td><td>fui</td><td>fuero</td><td>fueram</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.</td><td>es</td><td>eris</td><td>eras</td><td>fuisti</td><td>fueris</td><td>fueras</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.</td><td>est</td><td>erit</td><td>erat</td><td>fuit</td><td>fuerit</td><td>fuerat</td>
<tr><td>1st p.pl.</td><td>sumus</td><td>erimus</td><td>eramus</td><td>fuimus</td><td>fuerimus</td><td>fueramus</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.pl.</td><td>estis</td><td>eritis</td><td>eratis</td><td>fuitis</td><td>fueritis</td><td>fueratis</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.pl</td><td>sunt</td><td>erunt</td><td>erant</td><td>fuerunt</td><td>fuerint</td><td>fuerant</td>
</table>
<table border=1>
<tr><th>  <th>Present

subjunctive<th>Imperfect

subjunctive<th>Perfect

subjunctive<th>Pluperfect

subjunctive</tr>
<tr><td>1st p.</td><td>sim</td><td>essem</td><td>fuerim</td><td>fuissem</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.</td><td>sis</td><td>esses</td><td>fueris</td><td>fuisses</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.</td><td>sit</td><td>esset</td><td>fuerit</td><td>fuisset</td>
<tr><td>1st p.pl.</td><td>simus</td><td>essemus</td><td>fuerimus</td><td>fuissemus</td>
<tr><td>2nd p.pl.</td><td>sitis</td><td>essetis</td><td>fueritis</td><td>fuissetis</td>
<tr><td>3rd p.pl.</td><td>sint</td><td>essent</td><td>fuerint</td><td>fuissent</td>
</table>

'''Singular imperative:''' es


'''plural imperative:''' este


'''Present infinitive:''' esse


'''Future infinitive:''' futurus esse or fore


'''Perfect infinitive:''' fuisse


'''Future participle:''' futurus, -a, -um

====Derived terms====
*[[absum]]
*[[adsum]]
*[[insum]]
*[[intersum]]
*[[praesum]]
*[[subsum]]
*[[supersum]]

====Related terms====
*[[futurus]]
*[[possum]]

[[Category:Latin verb forms]]

[[fr:sum]]
[[io:sum]]
[[la:sum]]
[[nl:sum]]
[[ja:sum]]
[[pl:sum]]
[[sv:sum]]
[[zh:sum]]