==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[supersede]]
===Etymology===
From Middle English ''[[superceden]]'', from Old French ''[[superceder]]'', from Latin ''[[supersedere]]'': ''[[super-]]'' + ''[[sedere]]'' "to sit".
===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To set (something) aside.
# To take the place of.
# To [[displace]] in favour of another.
===Usage note===
''Supercede'' is regarded by some (e.g. [http://www.wsu.edu/~brians/errors/supercede.html]) as a misspelling of ''[[supersede]]''. The word was originally spelled with an ''s'' in Latin, but the ''c'' spelling began to be used in in Medieval Latin and continued into Old French and Middle English. It is still widely used today, and can be found in some dictionaries (e.g. [http://merriam-webster.com/dictionary/supercede Merriam-Webster Online]).

===Quotations===
*'''1491,''' ''Acta Dom. Conc.''
*:He sall '''supercede''' þe payment of þe said v<sup>c</sup> frankis.
*'''1857,''' ''On the Doctrine of Uses as an Element of our Law of Conveyances,'' in ''The American Law Register,'' Vol. 6, No. 2/3
*:To it a new species of conveyancing owes its origin, which dispenses with livery of seisin, and almost entirely '''supercedes''', in practice, the employment of common law deeds.
*'''2000,''' Juliet Floyd & Hilary Putnam, ''A Note on Wittgenstein's "Notorious Paragraph" about the Godel Theorem,'' in ''The Journal of Philosophy,'' Vol. 97, No. 11
*:They saw themselves as providing a freestanding “ideal language” or “concept-language,” what W. V. Quine has called a first-grade conceptual scheme, which in some sense '''''supercedes''''' ordinary language.
*'''2002,''' Amy Kapczynski, ''Queer Brinksmanship: Citizenship and the Solomon Wars,'' in ''The Yale Law Journal,'' Vol. 112, No. 3
*:The DoD may contend that the consolidated Solomon Amendment, passed in 1999, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 § 549, '''supercedes''' the regulations.
[[Category:English verbs]]