==English==

{{rank|month|news|prepared|822|support|bit|Indian|produce}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# Something which supports. Often used attributively, as a compliment or supplement to.
#: ''Don’t move that beam! It’s a '''support''' for the whole platform.''
#: ''Don’t move that beam! It’s a '''support''' beam.''
# Financial or other help.
#: ''The government provides '''support''' to the arts in several ways.''
# Answers to questions and resolution of problems regarding something sold.
#: ''Sure they sell the product, but do they provide '''support'''?''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[تأييد]]}} {{Unicode|(ta’í:d)}} {{m}}
*Chinese: [[支持]] (zhīchí)
*Dutch: [[steun]]
*Finnish: [[tuki]] (1,2,3)
*French: [[soutien]] {{m}}
*German: [[Stütze]] {{f}} (1), [[Unterstützung]] {{f}} (2,3)
*Hungarian: [[támogatás]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[sostegno]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[援助]] (えんじょ, enjo)
*Korean: [[지지]] (jiji)
*Portuguese: [[apoio]] {{m}}
*Maori: [[tautoko]]
*Russian: [[поддержка]] (poddéržka) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[apoyo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[understöd]]
*Telugu: [[తోడ్పాటు]] (tODpATu)
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|support||}}

# To keep from falling.
#: ''Don’t move that beam! It '''supports''' the whole platform.''
# To help, particularly financially.
#: ''The government '''supports''' the arts in several ways.''
# To answer questions and resolve problems regarding something sold.
#: ''Sure they sell the product, but do they '''support''' it?''
# To follow closely and aid.
#: ''I '''support''' France in the World Cup''

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[tukea]] (1,2,3), [[antaa]] [[tuki#Finnish|tukea]] (3)
*French: [[soutenir]] (2,4)
*German: [[stützen]] (1), [[unterstützen]] (2,3)
*Hungarian: [[támogatni]], [[eltartani]]

===Related terms===
*[[moral support]]
*[[supportable]]
*[[supported]]
*[[supportive]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:support]]
[[io:support]]
[[it:support]]
[[hu:support]]
[[fi:support]]
[[zh:support]]