==English==

{{webster}}

===Etymology===
{{OF.}} ''surveoir, surveer; sur, sor'', over, {{E.}} ''sur + veoir, veeir'', to see, {{F.}} voir, {{L.}} videre. See [[sur-]], and [[vision]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

[Formerly accentuated universally on the last syllable, and still so accented by many speakers.]

# The act of surveying; a general view, as from above.
#:"Under his proud survey the city lies."  -Sir J. Denham.
# A particular view; an examination, especially an official examination, of all the parts or particulars of a thing, with a design to ascertain the condition, quantity, or quality; as, a survey of the stores of a ship; a survey of roads and bridges; a survey of buildings.
# The operation of finding the contour, dimensions, position, or other particulars of, as any part of the earth's surface, whether land or water; also, a measured plan and description of any portion of country, or of a road or line through it.

====Synonyms====
*[[review]]
*[[retrospect]]
*[[examination]]
*[[prospect]]

====Translations====
;The act of surveying (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[yleiskatsaus]], [[yleissilmäys]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;An examination (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tarkastus]], [[katselmus]], [[katsaus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;The operation of finding the contour, dimensions or position as any part of the earth's surface (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kartoitus]], [[maanmittaus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
*[[Survey of dogs]]
*[[trigonometrical survey]] <!--, a survey of a portion of country by measuring a single base, and connecting it with various points in the tract surveyed by a series of triangles, the angles of which are carefully measured, the relative positions and distances of all parts being computed from these data. Syn. -->

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|survey||}}

# To inspect, or take a view of; to view with attention, as from a high place; to overlook; as, to stand on a hill, and survey the surrounding country.
#:"Round he surveys and well might, where he stood, So high above."  -Milton.
# To view with a scrutinizing eye; to examine.
#: "With such altered looks, . . . All pale and speechless, he surveyed me round."  -Dryden.
# To examine with reference to condition, situation, value, etc.; to examine and ascertain the state of; as, to survey a building in order to determine its value and exposure to loss by fire.
# To determine the form, extent, position, etc., of, as a tract of land, a coast, harbor, or the like, by means of linear and angular measurments, and the application of the principles of geometry and trigonometry; as, to survey land or a coast.
# To examine and ascertain, as the boundaries and royalties of a manor, the tenure of the tenants, and the rent and value of the same.

===Translations===
*Spanish.-informe, estudio de mercado

[[fr:survey]]
[[zh:survey]]