== Definition ==
<p>According to the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, to be Swank is to be imposingly fasionable or elegant. That definition, however, does not nearly describe the intensity of the word Swank. </p>
<p>Swank is used to describe anything and everything that is completely and totally awesome. When asked for a comment regarding the definition, Ommert replied, "There's really no words to describe being swank. It's a great feeling, to know that you are Swank as Hell. Honestly, it's the best feeling in the world. If I had to, I would say that to be Swank is to be the best of the best. Once you're swank, you have nothing to worry about in life." Swank is often misused by blasphemers, used to describe things that are "Unswank" or "Gai". However, those that misuse the word are often referred to as "Unswank" or "Gai" themselves. </p>

== History ==
<p>The term "Swank" has a very brief history. It's origins are unknown for the most part, but it is thought to have come from the German word, swanken, which means "to swing". Until 2006, Swank was seldom used, let alone heard.</p>
<p>John Dominick, of Agawam, MA., first spoke the word in a conversation on AOL Instant Messenger between himself and resident of Pittsburgh, PA., Justin Ommert. Where Dominick heard the word is a mystery to all. Ommert, immediately loving the word took it and ran with it, making it popular in the Pittsburgh Area, and even spreading it to areas outside of Pittsburgh, and State College, PA.  </p>
<p> Brashear High School, one of the most Gai places to be, was actually the staging area for the popularization of Swank. It was there that Ommert began using it and demeaning others, by letting them know how Swank he was, and how they should be shamed to not be as swank as him. Along with fellow members of his class (Dan Carmen, the most popular of them), Ommert began using the word frequently, and it seemed to have caught like wildfire. Nobody is sure how, but the word has reached many corners of Pittsburgh, some of which Ommert has never visited. </p>
<p>John Dominick's part in this story is, as stated previously, predominately unknown. We do know, however, that the Agawam area is starting to use the word Swank moreso than usual, which leads us to believe that Dominick may be attempting to start a revolution of his own. </p>
----
A statement has been aquired from John Dominick himself regarding the history of the word swank. He says, "I came across the word once, as I was browsing a random wrestling website. I had grown tired of calling things "sweet" and "Badicle" and decided to start calling things "swank" instead. I began using it in conversations with friends around Agawam High School. People noticed the dexterity in using the word and soon enough the word was being said all around the school. Its most popular origins would be 2nd period Science class where swank is used often to descibe myself to the class."

==The Swankometer==
<p>Not only did Ommert make Swank popular, but he also created a system that would revolutionize the usage of the word swank. This system is called the Swankometer (swank-aw-meh-ter). It is based on 14 considerations, and 27 points. The considerations and their point values at this point are not open to the pulic. The only consideration we can reveal is Consideration X, the all time top secret consideration. The levels of Swank are as follows:</p>
<p>'''27 points - Swank as Hell<br>'''
If one is Swank as Hell, he/she can simply use the rating to justify any course of action. (Example: "How did I walk on water? Psht, I'm swank as hell that's how.") This is the single hardest rating to achieve, and most only achieve it due to Consideration X.  </p>
<p>'''21-26 points - Swank<br>'''
Being Swank is an amazing accomplishment, and those that are swank should be commended. Once you've reached 26, you are one of the elite. You are then considered to become Swank as Hell, but don't get your hopes up, there are few who make it. </p>
<p>'''15-20 points - Almost Swank<br>'''
Have no fear, this is still a respectable rating. If you are unsatisfied, you can work to achieve a better rating, but beware of unconsistency in character. 
<p>'''10-14 points - Kind of Unswank<br>'''
You're falling down a slippery slope at this point, and you should do anything you can to work up to Almost Swank. You need not worry, however, because you're still a little swank at this point. Just don't get too comfortable here in the realm of hardly swank.</p>
<p>'''5-9 points - Unswank<br>'''
Well, if you're a glass-half-full kind of person, at least you're not Gai.</p>
<p>'''1-4 points - Gai<br>'''
You're simply Gai. There's no other way to put it. Don't pout, otherwise you'll do the unthinkable and reach Kill Yourself.  </p>
<p>'''0 points - Kill Yourself''' <br>
Congratulations are in order, you suck at life. Do us all a favor and heed your rating.<br></p>
<p>''Please note that any course of action you take may or may not effect your rating on the swankometer. Ratings are subject to change''</p>

----
<p> '''More on Ratings'''<br>
Jesus, Triple H, John Dominick, and Justin Ommert are the only known people to have achieved a 27 out of 27 on the Swankometer, making them Swank as Hell. Dan Carmen (of Pittsburgh, PA.), having achieved a 26, is one of the few who is in line to become Swank as Hell. No known person has yet achieved a "Kill Yourself" rating, and the first to do so should promptly kill themselves, due to the fact that they would shame their entire family and group of friends, if they have any in the first place.
----
<p> '''Other Ratings''' <br>
James Bond - 26/27<br>
Tom Cruise - 7/27<br>
Brennan Thrower - 26/27<br>
Paris Hilton - 4/27 <br> 
 More to come..</p>

== Other Places to find Swank ==
<p> Swank has recently been spotted all around the world wide web, and even spraypainted on construction signs. </p>
<p>If you're familiar with the popular website "Nation Sates", there is a reigon, the Swankdom of Superiority, wherein Ommert himself, along with Dan Carmen and others, have settled their respective nations. Wikipedia is the newest website to play host to the word swank, and hopes to further it's spread across the nation. </p>
<p> Somebody, apprarently taking a liking to the word, created a stencil and spraypainted SWANK in orange on a construction sign, located at the top of the hill on Rockland Avenue (located in the Beechview area of Pittsburgh, PA.). The sign has since been removed. Ommert was recently asked to comment. "Personally, I love it. I love anything that furthers our cause. I'd like to stay within the lines of legality, but I must support anything that gets swank out there and in the public eye. I'd like to have a more permanent display than a road sign that isn't even cemented to the ground, but I love it nonetheless." When asked if he was supporting vandalism with this statement, Ommert declined to comment. </p>