{{zh-forms|[[乱点鸳鸯谱]]|[[亂]][[點]][[鴛鴦譜]]}}
=={{cmn}}==
===Etymology===
* '''1626:''' [[w:Feng Menglong|Feng Menglong]], ''Common sayings for the ages, Chapter eight, Prefecture Chief Qiao '''arbitrarily fills out the marriage contracts''''' ([[:zh:s:醒世恒言/第八卷|醒世恆言/第八卷]]  喬太守'''亂點鴛鴦譜''')
*A chapter from a novel written in [[vernacular]] Mandarin in the [[w:Ming Dynasty|Ming Dynasty]].  The novel is a collection of humorous folktales.
*Chapter eight synopsis:
*:In the [[w:Song Dynasty|Song Dynasty]], the Liu family had one daughter and one son.  The son (Liu Pu) was betrothed to Sun Zhuyi, while the daughter (Liu Huiniang) was betrothed to the Pei Zheng.  When Liu Pu got sick, Sun Zhuyi's widowed mother worried that she would have to pay the dowry, only to have her son-in-law die of an illness soon after the marriage.  A plan was hatched to send her own son (Sun Yulang), disguised as her daughter, to the Liu's.  If Liu Pu's health did not improve within three days, Sun Yulang was to return home, and no dowry would be paid.  Since Liu Pu was too ill to spend the wedding night with his new "bride," it was agreed that Liu Pu's sister (Liu Huiniang) would take his place.  Sun Yuliang, still disguised as his sister, was smitten with Liu Huiniang, and took advantage of her that night in the bridal chamber.  When Pei Zheng's father discovered what had happened, he became outraged, and filed a complaint with Prefecture Chief Qiao.  After hearing from all parties, Prefecture Chief Qiao decided to solve the problem by decreeing that Sun Yulang give up his betrothal to Xu Wen'ge, so that she could marry Pei Zheng.  Sun Yuliang would then marry Liu Huiniang, and Sun Zhuyi would marry Liu Pu.

===Idiom===
{{cmn-idiom|t|pin=luàn diăn yuānyāngpŭ|pint=luan4dian3yuan1yang1pu3|tra=亂點鴛鴦譜|sim=乱点鸳鸯谱|rs=乙12}}
# an arbitrary pairing of two people or two things; an odd pairing
#* '''2006:''' 乐天 (Le Tian), ''[http://mouse.zol.com.cn/31/319931.html 乱点鸳鸯谱 诺基亚6610塞进罗技G5里]'' (An odd pair ... [[w:Nokia|Nokia]] 6610 inserted into [[w:Logitech|Logitech]] G5)
#*: [[國外]][[的]][[硬體]][[發燒友]][[獨特]][[的]][[創意]][[和]][[高超]][[的]][[動手]][[能力]]，[[一向]][[為]][[國內]][[玩家]][[所]][[稱道]]。[[不過]][[有]][[些]][[改造]][[看起來]][[確實]][[有]][[些]][[不倫不類]]，[[比方]][[說]][[下面]][[這個]][[被]][[作者]][[美其名曰]]“LogiNoki”[[的]][[滑鼠]]MOD[[作品]]，[[就]][[給]][[人]][[一種]]'''亂點鴛鴦譜'''[[的]][[感覺]]，[[作者]][[讓]][[諾基亞]]6610[[手機]][[和]][[羅技]]G5[[滑鼠]][[湊成]][[了]][[一對]]，[[將]]6610[[的]][[螢幕]][[和]][[控制]][[晶片]][[拆]][[下]][[塞進]]G5[[的]]“[[肚子]]”[[裡]]，[[組合]][[成]][[一個]][[帶]]LCD[[螢幕]][[的]][[滑鼠]]。
#*:: ''The unique creativity and superb abilities of foreign hardware fanatics has always received high praise from domestic gamers.  However, some innovations truly defy description.  For example, one can't help but getting the sense that the mod design of the computer mouse below, euphemistically called "LogiNoki" by its creator, is '''an odd pairing'''.  Its creator paired the [[w:Nokia|Nokia]] 6610 cellphone with the [[w:Logitech|Logitech]] G5 computer mouse by taking the screen and the control chip from the 6610, and inserting it into the "guts" of the G5.  This combination produces a computer mouse with an LCD screen.''

====Related terms====
*[[喬太守亂點鴛鴦譜]]

===Proper noun===
{{cmn-proper|t|pin=luàn diăn yuānyāngpŭ|pint=luan4dian3yuan1yang1pu3|tra=亂點鴛鴦譜|sim=乱点鸳鸯谱|rs=乙12}}

# (''movie title'') ''[[w:The Misfits (film)|The Misfits]]''

===External links===
*[http://www.google.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E4%B9%B1%E7%82%B9%E9%B8%B3%E9%B8%AF%E8%B0%B1&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%BA%82%E9%BB%9E%E9%B4%9B%E9%B4%A6%E8%AD%9C&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]
*[http://www.imdb.cn/title/tt0055184 Internet Movie Database Chinese page for ''The Misfits (1961)'']