{{zh-forms|[[鹬]][[蚌]][[相]][[争]]，[[渔人]][[得]][[利]]|[[鷸蚌相爭，漁人得利]]}}
==Chinese==
===Mandarin===
[[Pinyin]]: yù bàng xiāng zhēng yúrén dé lì
===Etymology===
Literally: When the [[w:snipe|snipe]] and the [[w:oyster|oyster]] fight, it is the fisherman that reaps the reward.
*From a story in Chapter Two, "Strategies of [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]]," ''[[w:Zhan Guo Ce|Strategies of the Warring States]]''
#: [[赵]][[且]][[伐]][[燕]]，[[苏代]][[为]][[燕]][[王]][[谓]][[惠]][[王]][[曰]]：“[[今]][[者]][[臣]][[来]]，[[过]][[易水]]，[[蚌]][[方]][[出]][[曝]]，[[而]][[鹬]][[啄]][[其]][[肉]]，[[蚌]][[合]][[而]][[钳]][[其]][[喙]]。[[鹬]][[曰]]：‘[[今日]][[不]][[雨]]，[[明日]][[不]][[雨]]，[[即]][[有]][[死]][[蚌]]。’[[蚌]][[亦]][[谓]][[鹬]][[曰]]：‘[[今日]][[不]][[出]]，[[明日]][[不]][[出]]，[[即]][[有]][[死]][[鹬]]。’[[两]][[者]][[不]][[肯]][[舍]]，[[渔]][[者]][[得]][[而]][[并]][[禽]][[之]]。[[今]][[赵]][[且]][[伐]][[燕]]，[[燕]]、[[赵]][[久]][[相]][[支]]，[[以]][[弊]][[大众]]，[[臣]][[恐]][[强]][[秦]][[之]][[为]][[渔]][[父]][[也]]。[[故]][[愿]][[王]][[之]][[熟]][[计]][[之]][[也]]。”[[惠]][[王]][[曰]]：“[[善]]。”[[乃]][[止]]。
#: ''When [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] was about to attack [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]], Su Dai spoke to King Hui of [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] on behalf of the king of [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]].  He said, "On my way here today, as I crossed the Yi River, I spotted an [[w:oyster|oyster]] that had opened its shell to sun itself.  Just then, a [[w:snipe|snipe]] began to peck at the flesh inside its shell.  The [[w:oyster|oyster]] closed its shell on the beak of the [[w:snipe|snipe]] so that it could not get away.  The [[w:snipe|snipe]] said, "It is not raining today, nor will it rain tomorrow.  You shall die Mr. [[w:oyster|Oyster]]."  To which the [[w:oyster|oyster]] replied, "You shall not escape my grip today, nor shall you escape it tomorrow.  It is you who will die (of hunger) Mr. [[w:snipe|Snipe]]."  Neither side would yield, at which point, a fisherman came by and snatched them both into his net.  Today, [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] is on the verge of attacking [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]].  [[w:Yan (state)|Yan]] and [[w:Zhao (state)|Zhao]] have been at odds for a long time, and have caused their people to suffer.  I am afraid that the fisherman in this case will be the mighty [[w:Qin (state)|Qin]].  For this reason, I hope that your highness will give the matter your mature consideration.  King Hui said, "ok fine" and called off the attack.''

===Proverb===
#When two sides contend, it's always the third party that benefits.

===Synonyms===
*[[鹬蚌相争，鱼翁得利]]

===Related terms===
*[[渔人之利]]
*[[两败俱伤]]

===References===
*''Less than 2,000 hits may be an indicator that this term is not commonly used.''
**[http://www.google.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E9%B9%AC%E8%9A%8C%E7%9B%B8%E4%BA%89%EF%BC%8C%E6%B8%94%E4%BA%BA%E5%BE%97%E5%88%A9&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E9%B7%B8%E8%9A%8C%E7%9B%B8%E7%88%AD%EF%BC%8C%E6%BC%81%E4%BA%BA%E5%BE%97%E5%88%A9&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]

[[Category:zh-cn:Proverbs|yu4bang4xiang1zheng1yu2ren2de2li4]]