{{xsee|[[o]]|[[O]]|[[o'|o’]]|[['o|’o]]|[[ó]]|[[ö]]|[[ő]]|[[о]] (Cyrillic)|[[О]] (Cyrillic)|[[〇]]}}

==Translingual==

===Cardinal number===
*[[w:Arabic numerals|Arabic numerals]]: 0
*[[w:Chinese numerals|Chinese numerals]]: [[零]], [[〇]]

===Pronunciation===
''See'' [[zero]]

====Pronunciation note====
The pronunciation of '''0''' (zero) as a [[digit]] is very often shortened to that of the letter '''[[o|O]]''' to save time or keep rhythm. This change is required for the [[tens place]] of [[minute]]s following the [[hour]] and in shortened pronunciation of numbers between 10 and 19 hundred, including [[year]]s, as well as their truncated two-digit forms, where the zero is a leading digit. It is also very common when saying [[telephone number]]s, [[decimals]] after the [[decimal point]], the [[leading zero]] in decimal fractions less than one, or many other words such as "[[007]]".

===Noun===
'''0''' (''plural:'' '''[[0s]]''')
# The [[cardinal number]] [[zero]] indicating absence of any quantity. 
#:''They scored '''0''' in their worst game yet.''
# [[numeral]] corresponding to the number zero.
#:''The flashing '''0''' indicates that time is up.''
# A [[digit]] in [[decimal]], [[binary]], and every other [[base]] numbering system.
<!--
#:''The Boolean domain contains only '''0''' and 1.'' not petinent to numbering
replace with:
#:''Hexadecimal numbers ending in '''0''' are divisible by 16.'' single example:-->
#:''Binary numbers ending in '''0''' are even.''
# The origin, starting point, or fixed reference point, especially for a measurement.
#:''The '''0''' for the Celcius scale is 273.15 Kelvin.''
# Nothing, nought.
#:''The shipment was lost, so they had '''0''' in stock.''
#{{mathematics}} The [[identity element]] with respect to [[addition]].
#: <math>\exists\,\mathbf{0}:\forall a\in A:\mathbf{0}+a=a+\mathbf{0}=a</math>
#(''computer science'' or ''electrical engineering'') [[bit]] state corresponding to binary digit 0 or [[FALSE]]; in a [[logic gate]] in the ''low'' state or [[off]].
#:''If the NOT gate input is 1, the output is '''0'''.''
#{{mathematics}} A [[Boolean]] or truth value corresponding to FALSE.
#:''If A&B&C='''0''' then  at least one of A, B, or C is '''0'''.''


====Synonyms====
*number: [[cipher]], [[nil]], [[nought]], [[null]]
*digit: [[slashed zero]]

====Derived terms====
*[[0th]], the [[ordinal number]] form
*[[10]], [[20]], [[100]], etc. cardinal number representations containing [[digit]] '''0'''.

===Adjective===
'''0'''
# Of no or zero quantity; of [[cardinality]] zero.
#:''In the desert '''0''' cm precipitation per month is common.''
#Of the origin, starting point, especially for a measurement.
#:''The ice will begin to melt at '''0''' degrees C.''

===See also===
*[[w:0 (number)|0 (number) in Wikipedia]]
*[[1]]

[[de:0]]
[[io:0]]
[[is:0]]
[[mk:0]]
[[ja:0]]
[[pl:0]]
[[pt:0]]
[[sq:0]]
[[sv:0]]