* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index| Radical]]''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index 十|十]]+7

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index|Stroke number]]''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index 9|9]]

*'''Stroke order'''
*# The top-most horizontal stroke is done, from left to right.
*# The top-most vertical stroke is done, from top to bottom.
*# The left-most vertical stroke is done, from top to bottom.
*# The horizontal line that's second from the top, the right-most vertical line and the small line at the end of it are done as one stroke, from top-left going clockwise.
*# The small diagonal stroke on the left is done, from top-left to bottom-right.
*# The small diagonal stroke on the right is done, from top-right to bottom-left.
*# The horizontal stroke that's second from the bottom is done, from left to right.
*# The bottom-most horizontal stroke is done, from left to right.
*# The remaining vertical stroke is done, from left to right.

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese four corner index|Four-Corner System]]''': 4022<sub>7</sub>

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese Cangjie index|Cangjie input]]''': 十月廿十 (JBTJ)

* '''Graphical Significance and Origin''': 

* '''Common Meaning'''
*# [[south]]
*# southern part
*# southward

----

== Chinese [[Hanzi]] ==

* '''Romanizations'''
** [[Mandarin]]
*** '''[[Pinyin]]''': nán (nan2), nā (na1)
*** '''[[Wade-Giles]]''': nan<sup>2</sup>
*** '''[[Yale]]''': 
**[[Cantonese]]
***'''[[Jyutping]]''':
***'''[[Penkyamp]]''': 
***'''[[Yale]]''': naam4

===Compounds===
*[[南半球]]
*[[南北]]
*[[南边]]
*[[南部]]
*[[南豆腐]]
*[[南方]]
*[[南非]]
*[[南宫]]
*[[南瓜]]
*[[南国]]
*[[南寒带]]
*[[南胡]]
*[[南回归线]]
*[[南货]]
*[[南极]]
*[[南极光]]
*[[南极圈]]
*[[南柯一梦]]
*[[南面]], [[南面儿]]
*[[南南合作]]
*[[南欧]]
*[[南腔北调]]
*[[南曲]]
*[[南式]]
*[[南斯拉夫]]
*[[南天极]]
*[[南甜北咸]]
*[[南纬]]
*[[南味]]
*[[南温带]]
*[[南戏]]
*[[南下]]
*[[南亚]]
*[[南洋]]
*[[南辕北辙]]
*[[南竹]]

* '''Other info''': 

----

== Japanese [[Kanji]] ==

* '''Readings'''
** '''[[On]]''': [[なん]] (nan), [[な]] (na), [[だん]] (dan)
** '''[[Kun]]''': [[みなみ]] (minami)

* '''Other info''':  

----

== [[Korean]] [[Hanja]] ==

* '''Pronunciation''': 남

* '''Romanization'''
** '''[[The 2000 South Korean Revised Romanization|The 2000 South Korean Revised]]''': nam
** '''[[McCune-Reischauer]]''': nam

----

==Vietnamese==

*nam

----

== Dictionary Information ==

* KangXi: 0157.050
* Morobashi: 02750
* Dae Jaweon: 0357.080
* Hanyu Da Zidian: 10065.020

== Technical Information ==

* '''Unicode''':
** Hex: 5357
** Decimal: 21335
* '''Big5''':
** Hex: AB6E
** Decimal: 43886

[[zh:南]]