{{zh-forms|[[南辕北辙]]|[[南]][[轅]][[北]][[轍]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
*Literally: south (bound) shafts (of a cart running on) north (bound) ruts (in the road)
*''c.'' '''77 BCE - 6 BCE:''' [[w:Liu Xiang (author)|Liu Xiang]], ''[[w:Zhan Guo Ce|Zhan Guo Ce]], Strategies of [[Wei (state)|Wei]], Chapter 4'' ([[:zh:s:戰國策|戰國策]])
*: [[魏]][[王]][[欲]][[攻]][[邯鄲]]，[[季梁]][[聞]][[之]]，[[中]][[道]][[而]][[反]]，[[衣]][[焦]][[不]][[申]]，[[頭]][[塵]][[不]][[去]]，[[往]][[見]][[王]][[曰]]：「[[今]][[者]][[臣]][[來]]，[[見]][[人]][[於]][[太行山|太行]]，[[方]][[北]][[面]][[而]][[持]][[其]][[駕]]，[[告]][[臣]][[曰]]：『[[吾]][[欲]][[之]][[楚]]。』[[臣]][[曰]]：『[[君]][[之]][[楚]]，[[將]][[奚]][[為]][[北]][[面]]？』[[曰]]：『[[吾]][[馬]][[良]]。』[[臣]][[曰]]：『[[馬]][[雖]][[良]]，[[此]][[非]][[楚]][[之]][[路]][[也]]。』[[曰]]：『[[吾]][[用]][[多]]。』[[臣]][[曰]]：『[[用]][[雖]][[多]]，[[此]][[非]][[楚]][[之]][[路]][[也]]。』[[曰]]：『[[吾]][[御]][[者]][[善]]。』『[[此]][[是]][[者]][[愈]][[善]]，[[而]][[離]][[楚]][[愈]][[遠]][[耳]]。』[[今]][[王]][[動]][[欲]][[成]][[霸王]]，[[舉]][[欲]][[信]][[於]][[天下]]。[[恃]][[王國]][[之]][[大]]，[[兵]][[之]][[精銳]]，[[而]][[攻]][[邯鄲]]，[[以]][[廣]][[地]][[尊]][[名]]，[[王]][[之]][[動]][[愈]][[數]]，[[而]][[離]][[王]][[愈]][[遠]][[耳]]。[[猶]][[至]][[楚]][[而]][[北]][[行]][[也]]。」
*:: ''The king of [[w:Wei (state)|Wei]] was about to attack [[w:Handan|Handan]].  Ji Liang heard about it, and turned back in the middle of his journey.  He did not straighten the wrinkles in his clothes, nor did he brush the dust off of his head, but went straight to the king.  He said, "Today, on the road to the [[w:Taihang Mountains|Taihang Mountains]], I encountered a man whose carriage was heading north.  The man told me,  'I am going to [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]].'  I said, 'If you're going to [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]], then why are you facing north?' He said, 'My horse is good.' I said, 'although your horse is good, this is not the road to [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]].'  He said, 'I have abundant resources.'  I said, 'although you have abundant resources, this is not the road to [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]].' He said, 'My driver is excellent.'  I said, 'the better your driver and all the other things, the further from [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]] will you be.'  At present, the actions of your highness are because you want to become a supreme overlord.  Yet, you would like your behavior to be trusted by all under the heavens.  Relying on the power of your kingdom and the quality of your soldiers, you attack [[w:Handan|Handan]].  In this way, you plan to expand your territories and garner respect for your name.  However, the more actions taken by you the king, the further from a king you become.  '''It's akin to traveling north to get to [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]]'''.'' (Wiktionary translation)

===Idiom===
{{cmn-idiom|t|pin=nán yuán běi chè|pint=nan2yuan2bei3che4|tra=南轅北轍|sim=南辕北辙|rs=十07}}

# to be counterproductive; to run counter to; to work at cross-purposes; to sabotage your own progress; to go off in the wrong direction

===External links===
*[http://www.google.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E5%8D%97%E8%BE%95%E5%8C%97%E8%BE%99&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%8D%97%E8%BD%85%E5%8C%97%E8%BD%8D&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]

----

==Min Nan==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[lam˨˩uan˨˩pak˥˥tiat˥˥]}}

===Idiom===
{{nan-idiom|t|poj=lâm-oân-pak-tia̍t|pojt=lam5oan5pak4tiat8|tra=南轅北轍|sim=南辕北辙|rs=十07}}

# to be counterproductive; to run counter to; to work at cross-purposes; to sabotage your own progress; to go off in the wrong direction

===External links===
*http://limkianhui.ti-da.net/e769431.html