'''Satsang''' ([[sanskrit]] sat = true, sanga = company) describes in indian philosophy 1) the company of the "highest truth"; 2) the company of a [[guru]]; 3) the company with an assembly of persons who listen to, talk about, and assimilate the [[Dhamma|truth]]. This practice also takes the form of listening to or reading scriptures, reflecting on, discussing and assimilating their meaning, [[meditation|meditating]] on the source of these words, and bringing their meaning into one’s daily life. Especially in the tradition of [[advaita]]-[[vedanta]], satsang with an "[[Enlightenment (concept) |enlightened]]" master is considered to be a prerequisite. Contemporary satsang-teachers in the west sometimes mix traditional eastern knowledge with methods of modern psychology.

During a satsang with a teacher students are likely to ask questions. Satsangs also may contain elements like lectures, meditations, or recitations. The purpose of a satsang is not primarily to be found in the transmission of a mental teaching, but in the experience of the presence of an "awakened" or "enlightened" being, in which students are meant to come to the same level of inner freedom through the effect of an energetic resonance-phenomenon. 

==Satsang in the West==
The modern satsang masters have freed their teachings from the strict expectations of traditional advaita-teachers toward their followers. The masters assert that rituals or meditations are not necessary for inner freedom. Enlightenment is the ever-present truth that is being found beyond any conditions and spiritual states. As attachment to thoughts and to unresolved emotions are considered to be the hindrances to this cognition, many teachers emphasize the importance of accepting emotions unbiased as they are, with no attempt of changing or dissolving them. This, they say, will take the energy away from the stories of the mind, and thus from the stream of thoughts. Others recommend to permanently "return to the moment" in order to reach the same result. Because these practices are aimed at experiencing freedom in the presence, they are not regarded as "techniques" with an outcome to be found in the future. The worldwide fast-growing satsang movement has its roots in [[H. W. L. Poonja]], a student of [[Ramana Maharshi]].

==Quote==
From ''Siree Raag Mahala'' 1, 71, [[Guru Granth Sahib]]: 

:''How is the Society of the Saints to be known?''
:''There, the Name of the One Lord is chanted.''
:''The One Name is the Lord's Command; O Nanak, the True Guru has given me this understanding. ||5||''

==External links==

*[http://www.rudraksha-ratna.com/articledt.php?art_id=164 Article on Satsang]
*[http://www.satsang-worldwide.info/ Satsang Worldwide]
*[http://www.nonduality.com/ Large Site with many links about advaita and satsang]
*[http://sathsangam.blogspot.com/ Sathsangam Blog by Project Aksharam Foundation, India]

{{Hinduism}}


[[Category:Shabd paths]]

[[da:Satsang]]
[[de:Satsang]]
[[es:Satsang]]
[[it:Satsang]]
[[sv:Satsang]]