{{zh-hanzi|[[今朝]][[有]][[酒]][[今朝]][[醉]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
Literally: If there is wine today, then today is the day to get drunk.

From a poem called "Self Consolation" ([[自遣]]), by Luo Yin (833-909, 羅隱, 罗隐).

<center>
A gain makes me sing; a loss makes me sullen.

Worries and regrets are always around.

'''If there is wine today, then today is the day to get drunk.'''

Worry about tomorrow's worries when they come tomorrow.
</center>

[[得]][[即]][[高]][[歌]][[失]][[即]][[休]]，[[多]][[愁]][[多]][[恨]][[亦]][[悠悠]]。'''今朝有酒今朝醉'''，[[明日]][[愁]][[來]][[明日]][[愁]]。

===Idiom===
{{PAGENAME}} (''[[Pinyin]]'' jīnzhāo yŏu jiŭ jīnzhāo zuì)

# describes someone with attitude of instant gratification; describes someone who never thinks about the future; here today, gone tomorrow.
#: ''[[今天]][[的]][[年輕人]][[也]][[應該]][[為]][[他們]][[的]][[後人]][[艱苦]][[奮鬥]]，[[不能]][[抱]][[著]]“'''今朝有酒今朝醉'''”[[的]][[態度]][[過]][[日子]]。'' ([[Traditional Chinese|traditional]])
#: ''[[今天]][[的]][[年轻人]][[也]][[应该]][[为]][[他们]][[的]][[后人]][[艰苦]][[奋斗]]，[[不能]][[抱]][[着]]“'''今朝有酒今朝醉'''”[[的]][[态度]][[过]][[日子]]。''<ref>[http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:8B0WicWCzCAJ:www.ehomeday.com/NEWS/2005-11/20051122102330.htm+%22%E4%BB%8A%E6%9C%9D%E6%9C%89%E9%85%92%E4%BB%8A%E6%9C%9D%E9%86%89%22+site:www.ehomeday.com&hl=zh-CN&gl=cn&ct=clnk&cd=1 On-line news article]</ref> ([[Simplified Chinese|simplified]])
#: ''Today's youth must struggle diligently for the sake of those who will come after them.  They must not while away their time with an attitude of '''here today, gone tomorrow'''.''

===Footnotes===
<references />

===References===
*''Less than 2,000 hits may be an indicator that this term is not commonly used.''
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%BB%8A%E6%9C%9D%E6%9C%89%E9%85%92%E4%BB%8A%E6%9C%9D%E9%86%89&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .cn]
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E4%BB%8A%E6%9C%9D%E6%9C%89%E9%85%92%E4%BB%8A%E6%9C%9D%E9%86%89&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]
[[Category:zh-tw:Idioms|人02{{PAGENAME}}]]
[[Category:zh-cn:Idioms|jin1zhao1you3jiu3jin1zhao1zui4]]


[[zh:今朝有酒今朝醉]]