==English==
===Alternative spellings===
* [[mkay]], [[mmkay]], [[mmmkay]]
* [[mm-kay]], [[mmm-kay]]
 
===Etymology===
Nasalized variant of [[okay]].  Perhaps made popular by frequent appearance in the cartoon [[w:South Park|South Park]]; earlier, apparently only in linguistic transcriptions of speech.
 
===Interjection===
'''m’kay'''
# ''(informal)'' [[Okay]]; an expression of acknowledgment or affirmation, now often used in an ironical or condescending sense.
#: ''Drugs are bad, '''m’kay'''?''
 
===Quotations===
'''spelling ''mkay'''''
* '''1991,''' Barbara A. Fox, “Cognitive and Interactional Aspects of Correction in Tutoring,” in ''Teaching Knowledge and Intelligent Tutoring,'' Peter Goodyear ed. [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=I36Zzj7B7pgC&pg=PA154&lpg=PA154&sig=ZZYBrtCu62xusRHVxW0AAjsisuQ]:
*: In these tutoring sessions we have found that, when the tutor agrees with the student’s displayed understanding, her signal of confirmation comes quickly after the student’s turn, as in:
*:: S: '''Mkay.''' .hh And I know it’s negative, just to follow your thought process, because I know that the sine is positive.
*:: T. Mhm
* '''1993,''' Herbert H Clark, ''Arenas of Language Use'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=iRlL1nmsB-4C&pg=PA284&lpg=PA284&sig=MzayaXWqjqReOg6XyNY2ES7Ycn4]
*: [...] the director would go on only when both were satisfied the matcher had understood, as here:
*:: D. The long view of the quad uh walkway
*:: M. those
*:: M. ┌ numbers right?
*:: D. └ is number 5
*:: M. '''Mkay'''
*:: D. Yeah with the numbers on the bottom.
* '''1995,''' Charles Conrad and Lucinda Sinclair-James, “Institutional Pressures, Cultural Constraints, and Communication in Community Mediation Organizations,” in ''Conflict and Organizations,'' Anne Maydan Nicotera ed.
*: M1: '''Mkay.''' Let me point us back to. This is related to um what we were talking about and how you’re going to um sort of report what happened here tonight.
* '''2004,''' Gordon Atkinson, ''RealLivePreacher.com'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=txlWQXzOIukC&pg=PA34&lpg=PA34&sig=xzYsGkjZNOFHeKU7vnfoysmeOH0]:
*: My bold, Crocodile Hunter “Absolutely” withered into “'''mkay'''” with the end of the word lilted up like a desperate question.
* '''2004,''' Deanna Kizis, ''How to Meet Cute Boys'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=QAu5foUdyEkC&pg=PA80&lpg=PA80&sig=oNcYAAFSGryL3NbegfxWLHkDy8M]:
*: That has nothing to do with star-power crap and everything to do with keeping it real, '''mkay'''?
 
'''spelling ''mmkay'' '''
* '''1997:''' Christina S. Beck, ''Partnership for Health'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=wt_i9rIs-rcC&pg=PA126&lpg=PA126&sig=9_dJ1GsWMy-tX0tWLEkOK-xz9FA]:
*:: C: I want you to re:st (.) re:st (.) as much as you can do (.) is just re:st (.) hhh when >you go< home (.) >you tell< your husband you make dinner honey (.) hhh you take care of me (.) . . . I need >to set< down (.) I need >to rest< (.)
*:: P: '''mmkay''' (.)
*:: C: and >get down< (.) watch your sodium (.) the salt=
* '''2004,''' Abbe Diaz, ''PX This'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=TDruS6N75b4C&pg=PA53&lpg=PA53&sig=Jqyc7nGJpQqvdddYIzrhb5lnKmQ]:
*: well i used to have some skilled sticky fingers of my own back in the day so i know a shoplifted dress when i see one '''mmkay.'''
* '''2005,''' Catherine Delaney, ''The Rosameorns'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=EB57pYv70u8C&pg=PA10&lpg=PA10&sig=hRbhO3s8PF6BSTPtHf_qpUiEbck]:
*: ''I looked back to him...'''mmkay''' brown hair dark eyes...high cheek bones that lucky monkey I wonder if he has some native American.''
* '''2005,''' Jenny Colgan, ''Boy I Loved Before'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=r7CPgLjLGokC&pg=PA93&lpg=PA93&sig=WG-WgQdZJ1hUpuvR4ARwxpfI-pk]
*: She was sitting perched on her desk, in that nonchalant, ‘'''mmkay'''?’ way teachers do when they’re trying to pretend they’re down with the kids.
 
'''spelling ''mmmkay'''''
* '''1999,''' “It's Easy, '''MMMKay'''.” [title, in soundtrack] ''South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut''
* '''2004,''' Victoria Schmitz, ''If It’s Not One Thing It’s the Other'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=lFcLqmFytiMC&pg=PA27&lpg=PA27&sig=H_Qm7nTzqEzS470vfocV9c74reI]:
*: Let’s get all this straight. He took me to a place he hates to see if I like it. '''Mmmkay.'''
* '''2004,''' Stephanie Lehmann, ''Are You in the Mood'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=ECabx9_RoXAC&pg=PA49&lpg=PA49&sig=pW9_uvNdBOBHc__4hwhYzAfhRWs]
*: He told her she could sleep in if she liked.  “'''Mmmkay,'''” she said without opening her eyes, and he kissed her good-bye.
 
'''spelling ''m’kay'''''
* '''1999,''' Tom Bradley, ''Black Class Cur'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=Fdo3ky2yq-sC&pg=PA179&lpg=PA179&sig=PGLARdInWR86z9kI3MQaQKe5G9s]:
*:“I’ll tell you a secret if you promise not to tell anybody, not even the missus, '''m’kay?'''”
*:“'''M’kay.'''”
* '''2003,''' Bill Hunt and Todd Doogan, ''The Digital Bits: Insider’s Guide to DVD'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=ZPvgA1QU1BMC&pg=PA294&lpg=PA294&sig=hJv3zSuA9sriREBxGXxi7ZevcuQ]:
*: But do keep in mind that this film [viz. ''South Park''] is not for the faint of heart, and it ain’t for kids, '''m’kay'''?

'''spelling ''mm-kay'''''
* '''2000,''' Tom Bradley, ''Hustling the East'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=GYnGE49yhPsC&pg=PA236&lpg=PA236&sig=JIS7zjR3YOAzjIW-jrKuyOrxpQM]:
*: She didn’t ask what that was supposed to mean, but tallied a while on her fingertips and obliged him.
*: “'''Mm-kay,''' bye.”
* '''2005,''' Bill Eisele, ''Scrub Match'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=7M31jHxhJawC&pg=PA58&lpg=PA58&sig=no7YkuHLZazkBAuC0ztcd6i9AJI]
*: “All I’m saying,” the Asian man said, “is it’s about time she got a whiff of her own breath. Mm-kay?”

'''spelling ''mmm-kay'''''
* '''2005:''' Michael Collins, ''Hot Lights, Cold Steel'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=_AVckob6-kQC&pg=PA230&lpg=PA230&sig=9f8B9F-BmUpM8uXEium7jQXXStg]:
*: “Well, I’m going to take a picture of your arm and then this nice doctor is going to fix it for you, okay?”
*: “'''Mmm-kay.'''”