{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
French '''[[magique]]''', reborrowed from Latin '''[[magice]]''', borrowed from Ancient Greek '''[[μαγική]]''' ('''[[τέχνη]]''') ''magical (art)'', derived from '''[[μάγος]]''' ''mage''.

===Alternative spellings===
*[[magick]]
:''(Fantasy)'' used as a deliberate archaism
:''(Occult)'' used for supernatural magic, as distinguished from stage magic

===Adjective===
'''magic'''

# having supernatural [[talent]]s, properties, or qualities
#: ''a '''magic''' [[wand]]; a '''magic''' [[dragon]]''
# featuring illusions that are usually performed for entertainment
#: ''a '''magic''' show; a '''magic''' trick'' 
# [[wonder]]ful, amazing or [[incredible]]
#: ''a '''magic''' moment''

====Synonyms====
*[[magical]] (1, 3)

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[magisch]], [[betoverend]], [[feeëriek]]
*Finnish: [[maaginen]] (1,3), [[taika-]] (1, 2), [[taianomainen]] (3), [[lumoava]] (3)
*French: [[magique]]
*German: [[magisch]]
*Hebrew: [[קסום]] (kassum) {{m}}, [[קסומה]] (qsuma) {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[magico]] {{m}}, [[magica]] {{f}}
*Latin: [[magus]] {{m}}, [[maga]] {{f}}, [[magum]] {{n}}; [[magicus]] {{m}}, [[magica]] {{f}}, [[magicum]] {{n}}
*Romanian: magic {{m}}, [[magică]] {{f}}, [[vrăjit]] {{m}}, [[vrăjită]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[magico]] {{m}}, [[magica]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[magisk]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''magic''' (''uncountable'')
# [[supernatural]] [[occur]]rences or [[feat]]s.
# an illusion performed to give the appearance of magic or the supernatural.
# A ritual associated with mysticism.
# A cause not quite understood. ''Magic makes the light go on''.
# something [[spectacular]] or [[wonderful]].
#: ''movie magic''
# The decrypted messages produced by US cryptographers in WWII &mdash; it is usually taken to mean '... from Japanese intercepts'. The equivalent in the UK was Ultra, referring to decrypted German traffic.
# In computer science,  a statement or operator used in [[algorithm]] design that satisfies any conceivable formal requirement.  This is used in some methods of [[formal specification]] to allow leaving things unspecified (with the intent of later specification, as ''magic'' in this sense cannot be implemented).  Also known as [[miracle]].

====Synonyms====
* [[thaumaturgy]] (1)
* [[w:Sleight of hand]] (2)
* [[legerdemain]] (2)
* [[sorcery]]
* [[witchcraft]]
* [[conjuring]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[魔术]] (mó shù)
*Dutch: [[toverkunst]] {{f}}, [[magie]] {{f}}, [[goochelkunst]] {{f}} (2)
*Finnish: [[taika]] (1, 2, 3, 4, 5) [[magia]] (1, 3, 4) [[taikuus]] (2, 3, 4)
*French: [[magie]] {{f}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[magy]], [[tsjoenderij]]
*German: [[Magie]] {{f}} (1,2,3,5) [[Zauberei]] {{f}} (1,4)
*Greek: [[Μαγικός / ή]] (magicos / i)
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[קסם]] (qesem) {{m}}
*Italian: [[magia]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[魔法]] ([[まほう]], mahou, 1), [[手品]] ([[てじな]], tejina, 2)
*Romanian: [[magie]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[magia]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[magi]] {{c}}
*Thai: [[เวทมนตร์]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''to magic''' (magics, magicking, magicked, magicked)

# {{transitive}}: To cast a magic [[spell]] on or at someone or something.

====Synonyms====
*[[bespell]]
*[[enchant]]
*[[hex]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[taikoa]], [[loihtia]], [[lumota]]
*German: [[verzaubern]]
*Hebrew: [[לכשף]] (lechashef)
{{mid}}
*Romanian: [[vrăji]]
*Spanish: [[embrujar]]
*Swedish: [[förtrolla]], [[förhäxa]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[magical]]
*[[magically]]
*[[magic up]]
*[[magic carpet]]
*[[black magic]]
*[[magic numbers]] = constants used to identify certain file types.

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[fr:magic]]
[[io:magic]]
[[it:magic]]
[[hu:magic]]
[[pl:magic]]
[[fi:magic]]
[[zh:magic]]