''See also [[Mal]], [[mäl]], [[mål]], [[mâl]], [[mál]]''
==English==

===Noun===
====Etymology====
French ''[[mal]]'', illness.

'''mal'''
#[[Illness]], [[affliction]].

====Usage note====
Used only in [[set phrase]]s such as ''[[grand mal]]''.

===Prefix===
'''mal-'''
#as in [[maladjusted]], [[malcontent]]

===See also===
*[[malicious]]
*[[Mal]]

----

==Albanian==
===Etymology===
A substratum word, akin to Romanian ''[[mal]]''
===Noun===
'''mal''' {{m}} (''def. sing.'' [[mali]], ''def. pl.'' [[malet]])

# [[mount]]

----

== Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
| [[w:IPA|IPA]] || /mɑl/
|-
| [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]] || /mAl/
|}

=== Noun ===
'''mal''' ''f'' (plural: [[mallen]], diminutive: [[malletje]], plural diminutive: [[malletjes]])

What are the translations?

#A device to help drawing [[shape]]s
#A device to help shaping objects in [[plaster]] or [[plastics]] etc.

=== Adjective ===
'''mal''' ([[malle]])

#[[funny]], [[crazy]]

----

== Esperanto ==
=== Prefix ===
'''mal-'''

# Forms the opposite.
#:bona = good, malbona = bad
#:helpi = help, malhelpi = hinder
#:feliĉo = happiness, malfeliĉo = sadness

----

== French ==
===Etymology===
Old French ''[[mal]]'', from Latin ''[[malus]]'', derived from Proto-Indo-European ''*mel-'' "bad, wrong".  Near cognates include Spanish ''[[malo]]'' and Italian ''[[male#Italian|male]]''.

===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
| [[w:IPA|IPA]]
|rowspan=2| /mal/
|-
| [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]] 
|}

=== Noun ===
'''mal''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''[[maux]]''')

# [[trouble]], [[difficulty]]
#:''J'ai du mal à m'imaginer celà'' - I have trouble imagining that.
# [[pain]]
#:''J'ai mal à la tête'' - My head hurts ''or'' I have a headache.
# [[evil]]

=== Adverb ===
'''mal'''

# [[badly]]

<!--really?  Isn't this "mauvais"? No ''C'est mal fait; it's done badly''-->

=== Adjective ===
'''mal'''

# [[bad]] (''only in sayings'')
#:bon an, mal an
#:bon gré, mal gré
#:Il est mal de / C'est mal de +infinitive

==== Synonyms ====
*[[mauvais]]
*[[méchant]]
*[[vilain]]
*[[laid]]
*[[merdique]] (''vulgar slang'')

===See also===
*[[pas mal]]
*[[malade]]
*[[maladie]]
*[[malaise]]
*[[mal-aimé]]
*[[maladroit]]
*[[malheur]]
*[[malfaisant]]

----

==German==
===Combining form===
'''-mal'''

#[[times]]
#:''[[zweimal]]'' - two times, twice
#:''[[einmal]]'' - once

----

== Icelandic ==
=== Noun ===
'''mal'''

# [[language]]

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

----

==Interlingua==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[malus]]''

=== Adjective ===
'''mal'''

#[[bad]]
#[[evil]]

=== Adverb ===
'''mal'''

#[[badly]], [[poorly]]
#[[wrongfully]], mis-

=== Noun ===
#[[bad]], [[badness]], something bad
#[[evil]]
#[[illness]]
#[[pain]], [[ache]]

----

==Kurdish==
===Noun===
'''mal''' ''f''
# [[home]], [[house]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]

----

==Romanian==
===Etymology===
Dacian *mala or *malwa (attested in 'Dacia Maluensis') (< PIE *molH-). Has an Albanian cognate, ''[[mal]]'', which means "mountain".
===Noun===
'''mal''' pl ''[[maluri]]''

# [[shore]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''mal''' ''c'' (''pl'' [[malar]], ''def sing'' [[malen]], ''def pl'' [[malarna]])

#[[moth]]
#[[wels catfish]] (''Silurus glanis'')

===Verb===
'''mal'''

# Present tense of ''[[mala]]''
# Imperative of ''mala''.

====Related words====
*[[malström]]

----

==Turkish==
===Etymology===
From Arabic
===Noun===
'''mal'''

# [[assets]]

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]
[[Category:Albanian nouns]]
[[Category:Romanian nouns]]
[[Category:Romanian substratum words]]

[[de:mal]]
[[et:mal]]
[[el:mal]]
[[es:mal]]
[[fr:mal]]
[[ko:mal]]
[[io:mal]]
[[id:mal]]
[[it:mal]]
[[he:mal]]
[[ku:mal]]
[[nl:mal]]
[[nds:mal]]
[[ja:mal]]
[[pl:mal]]
[[pt:mal]]
[[fi:mal]]
[[sv:mal]]