{{See|I am the officer investigating the robbery of your handbag in East India Dock Road. I have been trying to contact you for some time now but cannot get through to your mobile number.

I have updates to our previous conversation. Unfortunately there is no CCTV evidence identifying the suspects. Therefore, the witness album (our last line of enquiry) is paramount to our investigation. Previously you stated you would recognise the suspects again if you saw them in a picture, Well we need to exercise this line of enquiry so that we can see if we can identify a suspect, arrest him and put him before the court.

In order to do this, I will need you to come to Bethnal Green Police Station to view a witness album. To do this new need to arrange an appointment so if you could please contact me on the number shown above and we can arrange this. Please contact me as soon as possible, otherwise I will have no choice but to close the investigation as without you there is no evidence. If you decide not to proceed, then the number shown in ‘our ref’ above is what you will need to claim on insurance.
Yours sincerely,}}
==English==
===Proper noun===
'''Mandarin'''

#The official [[language]] of the [[People's Republic of China]] and the [[Republic of China]] on [[Taiwan]], and one of four official languages in [[Singapore]].<!-- In the PRC, it's called ''Putonghua'' ( 普通话;普通話); In Taiwan, it's called ''Guoyu'' ( 国语;國語); Among overseas Chinese communities, particularly in South East Asia, the language is known as ''Hànyǔ'' ( 汉语;漢語)。-->

====Translations====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Bulgarian: [[Мандарин]]
*Chinese: [[普通话]] (pǔ tōng huà), [[华语]] (huá yǔ) 
*Danish: Mandarin
*Dutch: [[Mandarijns]] ''n''
*French: [[mandarin]] ''m''
*German: Mandarin ''n''
*Hebrew: [[מנדרינית]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Japanese: [[北京語]] (ぺきんご, pekingo)
*Latin: [[lingua Sinensis Mandarinica]]
*Polish: [[języki mandaryńskie]]
*Portuguese: [[Mandarim]] ''m''
*Slovenian: [[mandarinščina] ''f''
*Spanish: [[mandarín]] ''m'', [[chino mandarín]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[mandarin]]
*Thai: [[ภาษาจีนกลาง]]
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}<br>''Some translations need to be moved to '''[[mandarin orange]]'''.''

*Bulgarian: [[мандарин]] ''m'' (2)
*Chinese: [[普通话]], [[普通話]] ([[Putonghua]], Pǔtōnghuà, [[Pu3tong1hua4]]) (3)
*[[Ekspreso]]: [[Mandarino]] (1, 2), [[Mandarina]] (3)
*Finnish: [[mandariinikiina]] (2), [[mandariini]] (2), [[kiina]] (2)
*French: [[mandarin]] ''m'' (2)
*Portuguese: [[mandarim]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[mandarina]] ''f'' (3), [[tangerina]] ''f'' (3), bergamota ''f'' (3)
*Swedish: [[mandarin]]

[[de:Mandarin]]
[[fr:Mandarin]]
[[hu:Mandarin]]
[[pl:mandarin]]
[[pt:Mandarin]]
[[fi:mandarin]]