{{interwiktionary|code=mi}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ˈmaʊri/}}, {{SAMPA|/"maUri/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aʊri|-aʊri]]

===Etymology===
*From Maori language term ''maori'', meaning "aborigine", "fresh", "native", "normal", "ordinary", or "plain".

===Alternative spellings===
*'''Māori''': Prefered usage in Māori text. Macrons recommended by Māori Language Commission to indicate long vowel sounds in Māori words. Macrons also used in New Zealand English texts with Māori related content.
*'''Mäori''': Alternative usage in Māori text where macrons not available.
*'''Maaori''': Alternative usage in Māori text with limited character sets.

===Adjective===
'''Maori'''

# Of, from, or pertaining to the Maori.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[маорски]] {{m}}, [[маорска]] {{f}}, [[маорско]] {{n}}, [[маорски]] {{p}}
*Chinese: [[毛利]]的 (Máolì de)
*Dutch: Maori
*Finnish: [[maori-]]
*French: [[maori]] {{m}}, [[maorie]] {{f}}
*Maori: [[Māori]]
*[[Persian]]: [[مائوری]] (Mā'ori)
*Portuguese: maori

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# Language of the Maori.
# Indigenous people of [[Aotearoa New Zealand]].
# Member of a people of [[New Zealand]].

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Bulgarian: [[маори]] {{p}} (2)
*Chinese: [[毛利语]] (máolì yǔ) (1), [[毛利人]] (máolì rén) (2)
*Dutch: Maori {{n}} (1), {{mf}} (2)
*Finnish: maori (1,2)
*French: [[maori]] {{m}} (1), [[Maori]] {{m}} (2), [[Maorie]] {{f}} (2)
*Maori: [[Māori]]
*[[Persian]]: {{FAcjar|[[مائوری]]}} (mā’ori)
*Portuguese: maori (1,2)
*Russian: [[маори]] (máori) {{mf}} (2)
*Swedish: [[maori]] (1,2)

====Derived terms====
*[[Maoriland]]

====See also====
*''[[te reo]]''
*[[Wiktionary:Maori_index|Index of Maori words]]

===External links===
*[http://www.learningmedia.co.nz/nz/online/ngata/ Ngata Dictionary (new URL 2005 - it now has macrons, but it is initially unable to recognise them in a Maori-English search)] <!-- Robin wrote to Learning Media about it a second time on 25 May -->
*[http://translator.kedri.info ngā aho whakamāori-ā-tuhi (English and Maori Word Translator)] formerly from the Knowledge Engineering Laboratory of University of Otāgo, now based in Auckland 
*[http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/~tetaka/kupurorohiko.htm He Kupu Rorohiko] - Computer-related terms, by Te Taka Keegan - over 350 Maori-English words and phrases, followed by English-Maori
*[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definition/Maori-english/ Maori - English Dictionary]: from [http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/ Webster's Dictionary] - the Rosetta Edition.
{{ethnologue|code=mri}}

[[Category:Languages]]

[[hi:Maori]]
[[nl:Maori]]
[[nds:Maori]]