{{see|Mara|marra}}
==Darling==
===Noun===
'''mara'''

# [[hand]]
[[Category:Darling nouns]]
[[Category:drl:Anatomy]]
----
==Dieri==
===Noun===
'''mara'''

# [[hand]]
[[Category:Dieri nouns]]
[[Category:dif:Anatomy]]
----

==Gamilaraay==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/maɻa/}}
===Spellings===
*[[mārā]], [[márá]]
*[[murra]], [[mŭrră]]
===Etymology===
From Proto-Central New South Wales ''*mara'', from Proto-Pama-Nyungan ''*mara''.
===Noun===
'''mara'''

#[[hand]]
#[[finger]]
===Quotations===
*'''1856,''' William Ridley, ''On the Kamilaroi Tribe of Australians and Their Dialect,'' in ''Journal of the Ethnological Society of London'', vol. 4
*:Hand . . . '''mārā'''
*:Fingers . . '''mŭrră'''.
*'''1856,''' William Ridley, ''gurre kamilaroi, or Kamilaroi Sayings''
*:immanuel '''murra''' kawāni miedul, goe, “miēdūl waria.”
*:Immanuel by hand took the girl, said “damsel arise”.
*'''1873,''' William Ridley, ''Australian Languages and Traditions,'' in ''The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland'', vol. 2
*:Hand | '''murra'''
*'''1903,''' R. H. Mathews, ''Languages of the Kamilaroi and Other Aboriginal Tribes of New South Wales'', in ''The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland'', vol. 33
*:Hand .... .... | '''''murra'''''
===References===
*Alpher, Barry. 2004. "Proto-Pama-Nyungan etyma." Claire Bowern, Harold Koch (eds.) ''Australian Languages: Classification and the Comparative Method.'' Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
*Austin, Peter. 1993. ''A Reference Dictionary of Gamilaraay, northern New South Wales.''
[[Category:Gamilaraay language]]
[[Category:kld:Anatomy]]
----

==Indonesian==
===Noun===
'''mara'''

# [[danger]]

[[Category:Indonesian nouns]]

----

==Maltese==
===Etymology===
From Arabic
===Noun===
'''mara'''

# [[woman]]

[[Category:Maltese nouns]]

----

==Martuthunira==
===Nominal===
'''mara'''

#[[hand]]

[[Category:Martuthunira nominals]]
[[Category:vma:Anatomy]]
----
==Nyunga==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[marra]]
*[[maar]] (''eastern pronunciation'')
===Noun===
'''mara'''

# (''northern dialect'') [[hand]]
[[Category:Nyunga nouns]]
[[Category:nys:Anatomy]]
----

==Old English==
===Etymology===
Common Germanic *''[[maizon]]''
===Adjective===
'''māra'''

# [[more]]

[[Category:Old English adjectives]]

----
==Wangaaybuwan-Ngiyambaa==
===Noun===
'''mara'''

# [[hand]]
[[Category:Wangaaybuwan-Ngiyambaa nouns]]
[[Category:wyb:Anatomy]]

[[fr:mara]]
[[la:mara]]
[[pl:mara]]
[[pt:mara]]
[[fi:mara]]
[[zh:mara]]