==English==

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑː(r)di|-ɑː(r)di]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|mardi|er}}

#(''British'') [[sulky]] or [[whining]]
#:''He's a '''mardy''' child.''
#  Can also mean awkward, non-co-operative,bad tempered or terse in communication. (At least in Rutland and Leicestershire)--[[User:80.5.145.61|80.5.145.61]] 23:18, 5 September 2006 (UTC)
===Usage notes===
Used throughout the north of England, also used frequently in and around the Midlands and Yorkshire.More accurately in common use in Most of Leicestershire,Rutland and the part of Lincolnshire close to these. It is not used in Nottingham,or most of Nottinghamshire,or any other part of the Midlands except for that area of north Nottinghamshire which abuts South Yorkshire. The word Mardy is used throughout Derbyshire, and Derby city particularly. Its usage is notably declining in the MTV generation. Mardy is also used in the southern part of South Yorkshire. There is then a gap of about twenty miles (heading north) before it comes into use once more.

===Quotations===
* '''[1913] 1985,''' [[w:D. H. Lawrence|D. H. Lawrence]], ''Sons and Lovers''
*: “I wouldn’t be such a '''mardy''' baby,” said his wife shortly.
* '''[1984] 1997,''' ''Food, Health, and Identity,'' Patricia Caplan [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=BQNo4iK0QRAC&pg=PA39&lpg=PA39&sig=WSvTrhLM5ZsqucAxAXBZQPfJa-I]
*: When our Jonathan’s poorly...he’s '''mardy''', ''very'' '''mardy'''....
* '''[2001] 2003,''' ''Creating a Safe Place,'' NCH Children and Families Project [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=Z_it9hcSUWsC&pg=PA87&lpg=PA87&sig=HVq97Wzcn-4XqYc0kSVXoUyP1vQ]
*: Sometimes my mum’s in a '''mardy''' and she says she doesn’t care about us — but she does really.