==English==
===Etymology===
{{wikipedia}}
After Mario Andretti, a racecar driver.

===Noun===
'''Mario Andretti''' 
# ''(metaphorically)'' An equal to Mario Andretti, or a Mario Andretti [[wannabe]]; someone who drives fast or recklessly, as if driving a racecar.
# A daring speed maneuver.

===Synonyms===
* [[menace on the roads]]
* [[reckless driver]]

===Quotations===
* '''2000,''' Raud A Kennedy, ''Top of the World'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=onC-mHtDzjQC&pg=PA43&lpg=PA43&sig=ddVIjWArak3z8hV832gKid_xKh4]
*: Nobody knows the twists and turns of the West Hills better than Biff, in fact, he fancies himself the '''Mario Andretti''' of all neighborhoods where water is wasted on green lawns and the cute chicks don’t fool around unless they’ve been slipped a mickey.
* '''2003,''' Darcy O'Brien, ''The Hillside Stranglers'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=jxhlRuimnZsC&pg=PA127&lpg=PA127&sig=ZRmACYE0pDuausWPQtvDTcVX34c]
*: [...] he drove everywhere, even when going for a loaf of bread, as though he were chasing or being chased, a '''Mario Andretti''' of the freeways, trying to breake the sound barrier in his beige unmarked Plymouth or, off-duty, in his baby-blue Coupe de Ville.
* '''2003,''' Bernadette Bernon, “Midterm Reflections from a Semester at Sea,” in ''Steady As She Goes,'' Barbara Sjoholm ed. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=cYwYsLRf1LYC&pg=PA88&lpg=PA88&sig=HqBCPkpajThdV5iPo-RgFaYomzs]
*: “It’s hard to believe you ever took ballet,” Mister Tactful declared one day last fall, after pulling a '''Mario Andretti''' off an Intracoastal Waterway gas dock.
* '''2004,''' Yvonne Navarro, ''The Darkening'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=bpvXvRaC1kUC&pg=PA89&lpg=PA89&sig=xtB83heGm1ealKUkkTJlD4ReqmE]
*: But Buffy had already done a '''Mario Andretti''' around the corner with the wheelchair, and Xander was right on her heels.
* '''2004,''' Miriam Erick, ''Managing Morning Sickness'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=SdVW-61bJVAC&pg=PA78&lpg=PA78&sig=Pjv_y06DUvMw8HNqJiA1-VD3xz0]
*: Rick, thinking himself the '''Mario Andretti''' of Route 128 in Boston, hated driving his Corvette as slowly as Greta drove their station wagon.