:''See also:'' [[Mark]]
==English==

{{rank|ten|beautiful|possible|424|mark|followed|fear|evening}}

===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
! !! [[w:International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]] !! [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]
|-
! <!-- name this dialect pls -->
| /mɑː(r)k/ || <tt>/mA:(r)k/</tt>
|-
! [[GenAm]]
| /mɑrk/ || <tt>/mArk/</tt>
|}
*{{audio|en-us-mark.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[mearc]], from Germanic ''*mark-'' ‘boundary; boundary marker’, from Proto-Indo-European ''*merǵ-'' ‘boundary, border’.  Cognate with Dutch [[mark#Dutch|mark]], German [[Mark]], Swedish [[mark#Swedish|mark]]; and with Latin [[margo]] ‘margin’.  Compare [[march]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|mark|marks}}

# boundary, boundary-marker
## ''(archaic)'' A [[border]] or [[frontier]].
## (''Historic'') A [[common]], or area of common land, especially among early Germanic peoples.
## A stone or post used to indicate position and guide travellers.
## A [[target]] for [[shoot]]ing at with a projectile.
##:*'''1786''': To give them an accurate eye and strength of arm, none under twenty-four years of age might shoot at any standing '''mark''', except it was for a rover, and then he was to change his '''mark''' at every shot; and no person above that age might shoot at any '''mark''' whose distance was less than eleven score yards. — Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 37.
## The intended victim of swindle, fixed game or [[con game]].
## A marker indicating the finishing-point of a race; any [[goal]] or [[objective]].
# sign, indication
## A characteristic feature.
##:''A good sense of manners is the '''mark''' of a true gentleman.''
## A written character or sign.
## A stamp or other indication of provenance, quality etc.
## An indication or sign used for reference or measurement.
## A [[score]] for finding the correct answer, or other [[academic]] achievement; the sum of such point gained as out of a possible total.
## A [[score]] for a [[sporting]] achievement.
## A visible impression or sign; a [[blemish]], [[scratch]], or [[stain]], whether [[accidental]] or [[intentional]].
## (''Athletics'') The line indicating an athlete's starting-point.
## {{aussie-rules}} A catch of the ball directly from a kick of 10 metres or more without been touched in transit, resulting in a [[free kick]].

=====Derived terms=====
{{top2}}
*[[birthmark]]
{{mid2}}
*[[bookmark]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations=====

'''indication for reference or measurement'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[marca]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[markering]] {{f}}, [[aanduiding]] {{f}}, [[teken]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[merkki]]
*French: [[marque#French|marque]] {{f}}, [[signe]] {{m}}
*German: [[Zeichen]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[segno]] {{m}}
*Old English: [[mæl|mǣl]]
*Portuguese: [[marco]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[oznaka]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[marca]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[märke]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''academic score'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: nota {{f}}
*Dutch: [[punt]] {{n}}, [[score]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[arvosana]], [[numero]] ''(colloquial)''
*French: [[note#French|note]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*German: [[Note#German|Note]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[voto]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[nota#Portuguese|nota]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[nota#Spanish|nota]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''sporting score'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[punt]] {{n}}, [[score]] {{f}}
*French: [[score#French|score]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[punteggio]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''visible impression, blemish, stain'''
{{top}}
*Catalan:[[marca]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[blaam]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[tahra]], [[jälki]], [[läiskä]], [[naarmu]]
*French: [[trace#French|trace]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[macchia]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[mancha#Portuguese|mancha]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[mancha#Spanish|mancha]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[märge]] (1), [[hinne]] (3)

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|mark||}}

# To indicate in some way for later reference.
# To take note of.
# To blemish, scratch, or stain.
# To indicate the correctness of and give a score to an essay, exam answers, etc.
# (''Australian Rules football'') To catch the ball directly from a kick of 10 metres or more without having been touched in transit, resulting in a [[free kick]].

=====Translations=====

'''indicate'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[markeren]], [[aanduiden]], [[optekenen]]
*Finnish: [[merkitä]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[indicar]]
*Slovene: [[označiti]], [[zaznamovati]]
*Swedish: [[märka]], [[märka upp]]
{{bottom}}

'''take note of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[noteren]], [[opschrijven]], [[neerpennen]], [[nota nemen]]
*Finnish: [[merkitä]], [[muisti]]in
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[märka]], [[lägga märke till]]
*French: [[noter]]
{{bottom}}

'''blemish'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bevlekken]]
*Finnish: [[tahrata]], [[naarmuttaa]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[tacher]]
*Italian: [[macchiare]]
*Slovene: [[zaznamovati]]
{{bottom}}

'''correct'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[verbeteren]]
*Finnish: [[arvostella]], [[korjata]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[rätta]]
*French: [[corriger]]
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[marcar]] (1, 3), [[apuntar]] (2), [[anotar]] (2), [[qualificar]] (4)
*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[hindama]] (4) 
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[marcar]] (1, 3), [[apuntar]] (2), [[anotar]] (2), [[calificar]] (4)

=====Derived terms=====
{{top3}}
*[[Kitemark]]
*[[make one's mark]]
*[[mark-down]]
*[[mark down]]
*[[marked]]
*[[marker]]
{{mid3}}
*[[marking]]
*[[mark my words]]
*[[mark of respect]]
*[[mark out]]
*[[mark time]]
*[[mark up]]
{{mid3}}
*[[mark-up]]
*[[on your marks]]
*[[press-mark]]
*[[punctuation mark]]
*[[trademark]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[marc]], from Germanic ''*mark-'' (probably ultimately the same as Etymology 1).  Cognate with Dutch [[mark]], German [[Mark]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|mark|marks}}

# A measure of weight (especially for [[gold]] and [[silver]]), once used throughout Europe, equivalent to 8 oz.
#:*'''1997''': As a reward for his poetry, Athelstan gave Egil two more gold rings weighing a '''mark''' each, along with an expensive cloak that the king himself had worn. — ‘Egil's Saga’, tr. Bernard Scudder, ''The Sagas of Icelanders'' (Penguin 2001, p. 91)
# (''Historical'') A English and Scottish unit of currency (originally valued at one mark weight of silver), equivalent to 13 shillings and fourpence.
# Any of various foreign monetary units, especially the base [[unit]] of [[currency]] in [[Germany]] between 1948 and 2002, equal to 100 [[pfennig]]s.
# A mark coin.

=====Synonyms=====
''(German currency)'': [[Deutschmark]], [[Deutschemark]], German mark

=====Translations=====

'''unit of currency'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[marka#Bosnian|marka]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[marka#Croatian|marka]] {{f}}
*Dutch: mark {{m}}
*Estonian: mark
*Finnish: [[markka]], [[Saksan markka]] ''(specifically German)''
*French: [[mark#French|mark]] {{m}}
*German: [[Mark]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[marco#Italian|marco]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[marco#Portuguese|marco]] {{m}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[марка#Serbian|марка]] {{f}}
*:Roman: [[marka#Serbian|marka]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[marco#Spanish|marco]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[mark#Swedish|mark]] {{c}}, [[D-mark]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''coin'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[marka#Bosnian|marka]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[marka#Croatian|marka]] {{f}}
*Dutch: mark {{m}}
*Finnish: [[markka]]
*French: [[pièce]] {{f}} d'un mark
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[moneta]] {{f}} di un marco
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[марка#Serbian|марка]] {{f}}
*:Roman: [[marka#Serbian|marka]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
*[[convertible mark]]
*[[Deutsche mark]], [[Deutschemark]]
*[[Reichsmark]]

[[Category:Currency]]

----

==French==
===Noun===
'''mark''' {{m}} (''plural:'' '''marks''')

#mark (''former currency'')

----

==Icelandic==

===Noun===
'''mark''' {{n}}

# [[sign]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''mark'''

#(''uncountable'') [[ground]] (''as opposed to the sky or the sea'')
#:''Ha fast mark under fötterna'' - to be on terra firma (literally "to have firm ground under (one's) feet")
#:''Tillbaka på klassisk mark'' - back on classical ground
#:''På engelsk mark'' - on English soil
#(''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]'') ground, [[field]]
#:''Bonden ägde mycket mark'' - The farmer owned a lot of ground
#[[mark#English|mark]] (''currency'')
#(''gambling'') [[counter]], [[marker]]

====Conjugations====
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 
| bgcolor=#FFFFF0 colspan=5 align=center | '''common''' 
|- 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
! rowspan=2 | 
| colspan=2 width=105 | ''singular'' 
| colspan=2 | ''plural'' 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
| width=105 | ''indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''definite'' 
| width=105 | ''indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''definite'' 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''nominative'' 
| mark 
| [[marken]] 
| [[marker]] 
| [[markerna]] 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''genitive'' 
| [[marks]] 
| [[markens]] 
| [[markers]] 
| [[markernas]] 
|} 

====See also====
*[[ta mark]]
*[[i skog och mark]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

[[ang:mark]]
[[de:mark]]
[[fr:mark]]
[[io:mark]]
[[it:mark]]
[[hu:mark]]
[[no:mark]]
[[pl:mark]]
[[pt:mark]]
[[fi:mark]]
[[zh:mark]]