==English==

===Pronunciation===
*mă'rē, /ˈmæri/, /<tt>"m{ri</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-marry.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æri|-æri]]

====Homophones====
*[[Mary]] (''in some dialects'')
*[[merry]] (''in some dialects'')

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb|marr|i|ed}}

# To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take a husband or a wife.
#: ''Neither of her daughters showed any desire to '''marry'''.''
#<!--DefA--> To be joined together as spouses according to law or custom.
#: ''Jones and Smith will '''marry''' in June.''

====Translations====
<!--DefA-->'''to join in marriage'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[تزوج]]
*Dutch: [[trouwen]], [[huwen]], [[zich in de echt verbinden]]
*Finnish: [[mennä]] [[naimisiin]]
*French: [[se marier]], [[épouser]]
*German: [[heiraten]]
*Greek: [[παντρεύομαι]] [paˈ(n)dre̞vo̞ˌme̞], [[νυμφεύομαι]] [niɱˈfe̞vo̞ˌme̞], [[στεφανώνομαι]] [ste̞faˈno̞no̞ˌme̞]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[sposarsi]]
*Latin: [[nubere]]
*Swedish: [[gifta sig]], [[ingå äktenskap]]
*Telugu: [[పెళ్ళాడు]] (peLLaaDu), [[పెళ్ళి చేసుకొను]] (peLLi caesukonu)
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|marr|i|ed}}

# <!--DefB-->To unite in wedlock or matrimony; to perform the ceremony of joining spouses, ostensibly for life; to constitute a marital union according to the laws or customs of the place.
#: ''A justice of the peace will '''marry''' Jones and Smith.''
# To dispose of in wedlock; to give away as wife.
#: ''The king is keen to '''marry''' his daughters to influential princes.''
# To take for husband or wife.
#: ''In some cultures, it is acceptable for an uncle to '''marry''' his niece.''
#<!--DefC--> Figuratively, to unite in the closest and most endearing relation.
#: ''The attempt to '''marry''' medieval plainsong with speed metal produced interesting results.''


====Translations====
<!--DefB-->'''preside over the joining in marriage of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[trouwen]], [[huwen]], [[in de echt verbinden]]
*Finnish: [[vihkiä]]
*French: [[marrier]], [[épouser]]
*German: [[verheiraten]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[förena i äktenskap]], [[gifta]], [[viga]]
*Telugu: [[పెళ్ళి చేయు]] (peLLi chaeyu)
{{bottom}}

'''give away as wife'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[sposare]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[gifta bort]]
{{bottom}}

'''take for husband or wife'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[sposare]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[gifta sig med]]
{{bottom}}

<!--DefC-->'''figuratively: combine'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[yhdistää]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[förena]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: 
**[[zosobášiť sa]] (1, 2, 5, 6)
**[[zosobášiť]] (3, 4, 7, 8, 9)
**[[oženiť sa]] (1)
**[[oženiť]] (4)
**[[vydať sa]] (2)
**[[vydať]] (3)
**[[vziať si za manželku]] (1, 6)
**[[vziať si za manžela]] (2, 5)

===See also===
* [[w:Marriage|Wikipedia article on marriage]] 

===Interjection===
'''marry!'''

#<!--DefD-->(''obsolete'') Indeed!, in truth!; a term of asseveration said to have been derived from the practice of swearing by the Virgin Mary.

====Quotations====

*I have chequed him for it, and the young lion repents; '''marry''', not in ashes and sackcloth, but in new silk and old sack. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''King Henry IV, Part ii'', Act 1, Scene 2

[[fr:marry]]
[[io:marry]]
[[it:marry]]
[[kk:marry]]
[[hu:marry]]
[[fi:marry]]
[[ta:marry]]
[[vi:marry]]
[[zh:marry]]