{{wikipedia}}
==English==
=== Etymology ===
From Greek '''[[μάρτυς]]''', [[μάρτυρ]], [[μάρτυρος]] (''martys, martyr, martyros'') "witness, martyr".

=== Noun ===
'''martyr''' (''plural:'' [[martyrs]])
#One who takes action according to his religious beliefs accepting that he will be killed by others; one who is put to death for his religion; as, ''Stephen was the first Christian martyr''.
<!-- maybe somebody can find a way to include women without twice using "he or she"? -->
#Hence, one who sacrifices his life, his station, or what is of great value to him, for the sake of principle, or to sustain a cause.  
# (with a prepositional phrase of cause) One who suffers greatly. #:''Stephen was a martyr to arthritis.
#(Usage in the early 21st century) Somebody who kills himself in a way such as to kill or harm those he perceives as being against his beliefs. The word 'martyr' should only be used in this way with great caution, as many authorities consider such acts not to constitute martyrdom, and to be gravely sinful.
==== Translations ====
*Chinese: [[烈士]] (lièshì); [[受難者]], [[受难者]]
*Dutch: [[martelaar]] ''m'', [[martelares]] ''f''
*French: [[martyr]] ''m'', [[martyre]] ''f''
*German: [[Märtyrer]] ''m''
*Greek, Modern: [[μάρτυρας]] ''m'' (mártiras)
*[[Interlingua]]: martyr
*Japanese: [[殉教者]]
*Korean: [[순교자]]
*Portuguese: [[mártir]]
*Spanish: [[mártir]]
*Swedish: martyr
*[[Volapük]]: [[martüran]]

=== Verb ===
'''to martyr''' (''past'' and ''past participle:'' [[martyred]])

#To put to death for adhering to, or acting in accordance with, some belief, especially religious; to sacrifice on account of faith or profession.
#To persecute; to torment; to torture.
#:''The lovely Amoret, whose gentle heart'' 
#:''Thou martyrest with sorrow and with smart.'' —Spenser
<!-- webstah again -->

===Derived terms===
*[[martyrdom]]

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[io:Martyr]]
[[it:martyr]]
[[la:Martyr]]