==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[Maratunia]]
*[[Mardathoni]]
*[[Mardathoonera]]
*[[Mardatuna]]
*[[Mardudhoonera]]
*[[Mardudhunera]]
*[[Mardudhunira]]
*[[Mardudjungara]]
*[[Marduduna]]
*[[Mardudunera]]
*[[Marduthunira]]
*[[Mardutunera]]
*[[Mardutunira]]

===Etymology===
From Martuthunira.

===Proper noun===
'''Martuthunira'''

# An indigenous people of Western Australia.
# Their language.
{{wikipedia}}

====Quotations====
*'''1916,''' A. A. Goldenweiser, ''Reconstruction from Survivals in West Australia,'' in ''American Anthropologist,'' Vol. 18, No. 4
*:... so the '''Mardudhunera''', neighbors of the Ngaluma, neighbors of the Kariera, have a relationship system differing from that of the Kariera, but corresponding to that of the Aranda ...
*'''1994,''' Alan Dench, ''Martuthunira: A language of the Pilbara region of Western Australia''
*:The '''Martuthunira''' visited the islands of the Dampier Archipelago, which they presumably shared with the Yapurarra/Pijurru, and the Mary Anne Group.

===Adjective===
'''Martuthunira'''

# Of the Martuthunira or their language.

====Quotations====
*'''1912,''' A. R. Brown, ''The Distribution of Native Tribes in Part of Western Australia,'' in ''Man,'' Vol. 12
*:They are called ''Noanamaronga'' by the '''Mardudhunera''' tribe.
*'''1994,''' Alan Dench, ''Martuthunira: A language of the Pilbara region of Western Australia''
*:The reported location and extent of '''Martuthunira''' territory also differs from one description to another.

===External links===
{{ethnologue|code=vma}}

----

==Martuthunira==
===Etymology===
"Those who live around the Fortescue River", from ''[[Martuthuni]]'' "[[Fortescue River]]" + ''[[-ra]]'', [[provenience]] suffix.
===Nominal===
'''Martuthunira'''

# Martuthunira.
===Quotations===
*'''1994,''' Algy Paterson, Alan Dench (tr.), ''The First Boomerang,'' in ''Martuthunira: A language of the Pilbara region of Western Australia''
*:Mirntiwul ngunhu-ngara marrari-i '''Martuthunira'''.
*:They were separate mobs but they all had the Martuthunira language.

[[Category:English proper nouns]]
[[Category:English adjectives]]
[[Category:Ethnicity]]
[[Category:Languages]]
[[Category:English adjectives that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:Martuthunira nominals]]
[[Category:vma:Ethnicity]]
[[Category:vma:Languages]]