==English==

===Etymology 1===
See [[mesh]]

====Noun====
'''mash'''

#{{obsolete}}: A mesh

===Etymology 2===
Akin to German ''[[meisch]]'', ''[[maisch]]'', ''[[meischen]]'', ''[[maischen]]'', mash, wash, and probably to Anglo Saxon ''[[miscian]]'' to mix. See [[mix]]

====Noun====
'''mash'''

# A mass of mixed ingredients reduced to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; a mass of anything in a soft pulpy state. Specifically (Brewing), ground or bruised malt, or meal of rye, wheat, corn, or other grain (or a mixture of malt and meal) steeped and stirred in hot water for making the wort.
#A mixture of meal or bran and water fed to animals.
#''(Acronym):'' [[Mobile Army Surgical Hospital]]
#{{obsolete}}: A mess; trouble - [[Beaumont & Fletcher]]

=====Translations=====
''' a mass of mixed ingredients'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[grød]]
{{bottom}}

'''a mixture of meal or bran and water fed to animals'''
{{top}}
{{bottom}}

'''acronym: Mobile Army Surgical Hospital'''
{{top}}
{{bottom}}

'''obsolete: a mess; trouble'''
{{top}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Maische]] {{f}} (1, brewing), [[Brei]] {{m}} (1), [[Mus]] {{n}} (1), [[Futterbrei]] {{m}} (2)

=====Derived terms=====
*'''Mash tun''', a large tub used in making mash and wort

====Transitive verb====
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|mash||}}

#To convert into a mash; to reduce to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; to [[bruise]]; to [[crush]]; as, to mash apples in a mill, or potatoes with a pestle. Specifically (Brewing), to convert, as malt, or malt and meal, into the mash which makes wort.
#To press down hard; as, to mash on a bicycle pedal.  Colloquially (in the southern U.S.), simply to press.

=====Translations=====
*German: [[mischen]], [[zerstampfen]]
*Tok Pisin: [[paitim]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[mashing tub]], a tub for making the mash in breweries and distilleries
* [[mash tun]]
* [[mash vat]]
* [[mashed potato]] (1960s) a popular dance
* [[mashed potatoes]] plural noun (Originally lower class colloquial from early 1900s) Potatoes which have been boiled and mashed to a pulpy consistency, usu. with sparing addition of milk, salt, butter, or other flavoring. It is a popular accompaniment to a meat course

[[io:mash]]
[[vi:mash]]
[[zh:mash]]