{{see|mass}}
{{wikipediapar|Mass (liturgy)}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Old English. ''[[masse]]'', ''[[messe]]'', Anglo Saxon ''mæsse''. Late Latin ''[[missa]]'', from Latin ''[[mittere]]'', ''[[missum]]'', to send, dismiss: compare French ''messe''. 
In the ancient churches, the public services at which the catechumens were permitted to be present were called ''[[missa catechumenorum]]'', ending with the reading of the Gospel. Then they were dismissed with these words : "Ite, missa est", the congregation is dismissed. After that the sacrifice proper began. At its close the same words were said to those who remained. So the word gave the name of Mass to the sacrifice in the Catholic Church. See [[Missile]], and compare [[Christmas]], [[Lammas]], [[Mess a dish]], [[Missal]]

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-mass.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
'''Mass'''
# ''(Roman Catholic Church):'' The [[principal]] [[liturgical]] [[service]] of the [[Church]], including a [[scripture]] service and a [[eucharistic service]], which includes the [[consecration]] and [[oblation]] (offering) of the [[host]] and wine.   One of the seven [[sacrament]]s.
[[Category:Christianity]]
# ''(Music)'' A musical composition set to portions of the Mass.

====Derived terms====
*'''[[High Mass]]''', Mass with incense, music, the assistance of a deacon, subdeacon, etc.  ''(obsolescent)''
*'''[[Low Mass]]''', Mass which is said by the priest through-out, without music.  ''(obsolescent)''
*'''[[Mass bell]]''', the sanctus bell. See Sanctus.
*'''[[Mass book]]''', the [[sacramentary]] or Roman Catholic service book.

====Related terms====
*[[Divine Liturgy]]

====Translations====
* Dutch: [[mis]] ''de''
* French: [[messe]] {{f}}
* Polish: [[msza]] {{f}}

[[Category: English nouns]]
[[io:Mass]]
[[ru:Mass]]