==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===
From [[w:Old French|Old French]][[Category:Old French derivations]] maistrie.

===Noun===
'''mastery'''
#The [[position]] or [[authority]] of a [[master]]; [[dominion]]; [[command]]; [[supremacy]]; [[superiority]]. 
#:''If divided by mountains, they will fight for the mastery of the passages of the tops.'' Sir W. Raleigh.
#Superiority in war or competition; [[victory]]; [[triumph]]; [[preeminence]]. 
#:''The voice of them that shout for mastery.'' Exodus. xxxii. 18.
#:''Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things.'' 1 Corinthians. ix. 25.
#:''O, but to have gulled him Had been a mastery.'' B. Jonson.
#(obsolete) Contest for superiority. Holland. 
#(obsolete) A [[masterly]] operation; a [[feat]].
#:''I will do a maistrie ere I go.'' Chaucer.
#(obsolete) Specifically, the [[philosophers' stone|philosopher's stone]]. 
#The act or process of mastering; the state of having mastered. 
#:''He could attain to a mastery in all languages.'' Tillotson.
#:''The learning and mastery of a tongue, being unpleasant in itself, should not be cumbered with other difficulties.'' Locke.

<!-- From webster:
Mastery (Page: 900)
Mas"ter*y (?), n.; pl. Masteries (#). [OF. maistrie.] 

1. The position or authority of a master; dominion; command; supremacy; superiority. 

If divided by mountains, they will fight for the mastery of the passages of the tops. Sir W. Raleigh.
2. Superiority in war or competition; victory; triumph; preëminence. 

The voice of them that shout for mastery. Ex. xxxii. 18.
Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. 1 Cor. ix. 25.
O, but to have gulled him Had been a mastery. B. Jonson.
3. Contest for superiority. [Obs.] Holland. 

4. A masterly operation; a feat. [Obs.] 

I will do a maistrie ere I go. Chaucer.
5. Specifically, the philosopher's stone. [Obs.] 

6. The act process of mastering; the state of having mastered. 

He could attain to a mastery in all languages. Tillotson.
The learning and mastery of a tongue, being unpleasant in itself, should not be cumbered with other difficulties. Locke.
-->

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[määräysvalta]] (1)

[[zh:mastery]]