==English==

===Etymology===
From the past participle stem of later Latin [[masticare]] ‘chew’, from Greek [[μαστιχαν]] ‘grind the teeth’.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/'mæstɪkeɪt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-masticate.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|masticat|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[chew]] (food).
#: ''The cow stood, quietly '''masticating''' its [[cud]].''
# {{transitive}} To [[grind]] or [[knead]] something into a [[pulp]].

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1800s=1832 1892 1896|
1900s=1927}}
*'''1832''' — [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''[[s:The Pickwick Papers|The Pickwick Papers]]'', ch. 4
*: The fat boy rose, opened his eyes, swallowed the huge piece of pie he had been in the act of '''masticating''' when he last fell asleep, and slowly obeyed his master’s orders.
*'''1892''' — [[w:Herman Melville|Herman Melville]], ''[[s:Typee|Typee: A Romance of the South Seas]]'', ch. 12
*:'By tasting it, to be sure,' said I, '''masticating''' a morsel that Kory-Kory had just put in my mouth.
*'''1896''' — [[w:H. G. Wells|H. G. Wells]], ''[[s:The Island of Dr. Moreau|The Island of Dr. Moreau]]'', ch. 8
*:He resumed his meal. "I had no idea of it," he said, and '''masticated'''.
*'''1927-1929'''— [[w:Mahatma_Gandhi|Mahatma Gandhi]], ''[[s:An Autobiography or The Story of my Experiments with Truth|An Autobiography or The Story of my Experiments with Truth]]''
*:The vegetables were not to be cooked but merely grated fine, if I could not '''masticate''' them.

====Translations====
'''to chew'''
{{top}}
*French: [[mastiquer]]
*Greek: [[μασώ]]
*Icelandic: [[tyggja]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[masticare]]
*Russian: [[жевать]]
*Spanish: [[masticar]]
{{bottom}}

'''to knead'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[месить]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[mastic]]
*[[masticable]]
*[[mastication]]
*[[masticator]]
*[[masticatory]]

[[Category:Greek derivations]]
[[Category:Latin derivations]]

[[zh:masticate]]