{{see|May}}
==English==

{{rank|very|upon|man|70|may|about|its|time}}

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|mā}}, {{IPA|/meɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/meI/}}
* {{audio|en-us-May.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪ|-eɪ]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[maġan]]''
====Verb====
{{en-verb|inf=-|[[may]]|-|might|-}}

# ''(modal auxiliary verb, defective)'' To have [[permission]] to. Used in granting permission and in questions to make polite requests.
#:''You may [[smoke]] outside.''
#:''May I sit there?''
# ''(modal auxiliary verb, defective)'' [[possibly|Possibly]], [[but]] not [[certain]]ly.
#: ''He may be lying.''

=====Usage notes=====
*Simple past ''[[might]]''; no past participle; no future. For missing tenses, substitute inflected forms of ''be allowed to''. The present tense is negated as ''may not'', which can be contracted to ''[[mayn't]]'', although this is old-fashioned; the simple past is negated as ''might not'', which can be contracted to ''[[mightn't]]''.)
*Usage of this word in the sense of ''possibly'' is considered incorrect by some speakers and writers, as it blurs the meaning of the word in the sense ''have permission to''. These speakers and writers prefer to use the word ''might'' instead.

=====Synonyms=====
*(1): [[can]], [[could]], [[might]]
*(2): [[could]], [[might]]

=====Translations=====
'''To have permission'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[voida]], [[saada]]
*Greek: [[μπορώ]] (boró), [[επιτρέπεται]] (epitrépete)
*Icelandic: [[mega]], [[mátt]]
*Indonesian: [[boleh]] / [[dapat]] / [[bisa]]
*Japanese: [[してもいい]] (shité mo íi)
{{mid}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[توانستن|تَوانِستَن]]}} (tævānestæn)
*Portuguese: [[poder]]
*Swedish: [[få]], [[kan]]
{{bottom}}

'''possibly, but not certainly'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[voida]], [[saattaa]]
*Icelandic: [[geta]]
*Indonesian: [[mungkin]] / [[barangkali]] / [[bisa jadi]] / [[bisa saja]]
*Japanese: [[多分]] ([[たぶん]], tábun)
{{mid}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[شاید|شایَد]]}} (šāyæd)
*Portuguese: [[poder]]
*Swedish: [[kan]], [[kanske]]
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[peut]] (''third person'') (1), [[peut-être]], [[il se peut que]] + ''subjunctive'' (2)
*:You may smoke outside — ''Vous pouvez fumer dehors.''
*:May I sit there? — ''Puis-je m’asseoir là?'' '''or''' ''Je peux m’asseoir là?'' '''or''' ''Est-ce que je peux m’asseoir là?''
*:He may be lying — ''Peut-être il ment'' '''or''' ''Il se peut qu’il mente.''
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[können]]
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[lehet]]
*:You may smoke outside — ''Kivul dohányozhat.''
*:May I sit there? — ''Oda ülhetnék?''
*:He may be lying — '' Lehet, hogy hazudik.''
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[forsan]] (4, 5), [[darfas]] (1, 2)

*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[può]] (''third person'') (1), [[forse]], [[può essere che]] + ''subjunctive'' (2)
*:You may smoke outside — ''Potete fumare fuori.''
*:May I sit there? — ''Posso sedermi là?''
*:He may be lying — ''Forse mente'' '''or''' ''Può essere che menta.''
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[putea]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[poder]]
*{{ttbc|Tagalog}}: [[maaari]], [[puwede]]

===Etymology 2===
From French ''[[mai#French|mai]]''. So called because it blossoms in May.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[hawthorn]] bush or its [[blossom]]s.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[глог]] (glog) {{m}}
*French: [[aubépine]] {{f}}
*German: [[Weißdornblüte]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[λευκάκανθα]] (lefkákantha) {{f}}
*Italian: [[biancospino]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[miinensagaawanzh]], [[miinensagaawanzhiig]] {{p}}
*Portuguese: [[pirilteiro]] {{m}}, [[estrepeiro]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[боярышник]] (bojáryšnik) {{m}}, [[боярышники]] (bojáryšniki) {{p}}
*Spanish: [[espino]] {{m}}, [[marzoleto]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English auxiliary verbs]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]


----

==Kurdish==
===Noun===
'''may''', ''m''
# [[intervention]]

====Derived words====
*[[may tê dan|mayê xwe tê dan]]
*[[maytêder]]
*[[maytêderî]]
*[[maytêker]]
*[[maytêkerî]]
*[[may tê kirin|mayê xwe tê kirin]]

[[Category:Kurdish language]]
----

==Tagalog==

===Verb===
'''may'''

# there [[is]]

[[Category:Tagalog language]]

[[de:may]]
[[et:may]]
[[fr:may]]
[[io:may]]
[[it:may]]
[[km:may]]
[[ku:may]]
[[hu:may]]
[[nl:may]]
[[pl:may]]
[[pt:may]]
[[ro:may]]
[[simple:may]]
[[fi:may]]
[[ta:may]]
[[vi:may]]
[[uk:may]]
[[zh:may]]