==English==

===Noun===
'''mechanician''', ('''mechanicians''')


# a person skilled in the theory or construction of machines. 
#: Example: ''To build such a device will require an expert mechanician.''
#:Quotations
## ''"The mechanician came when I was away; I haven't seen him yet," he said, not looking at her.'' -- from ''Anna Karenina'' by Leo Tolstoy.
## ''The Yankees, the first mechanicians in the world, are engineers-- just as the Italians are musicians and the Germans metaphysicians-- by right of birth. '' -- from ''From The Earth To The Moon'' by Jules Verne.
## ''The Cotton-Gin is a machine to separate the seeds from cotton, invented by that celebrated mechanician, E. Whitney.'' -- from the 1828 ''Webster's Dictionary''.
# a person skilled in building, using, or repairing machines. A person who makes machiens or tools.
# a person skilled in mechanics. 
# a machinist.
# a scientifically trained practitioner.
# a mechanic.

====Usage notes====
Somewhat obselete, in more common use prior to the twentith centuary.

===See also===
{{wikipedia}}

===References===
*[http://www.thefreedictionary.com/mechanician Free Dictionary]
*[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=561505147 Encarta World English dictionary]
*[http://www.m-w.com/dictionary/mechanician Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary]
*Random House Unabridged Dictionary (via [http://www.infoplease.com/dictionary/mechanician infoplease])
*Webster's Revised Unabriged Dictorary
*{{R:Webster 1913}} (via [http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Mechanician onelook])
*Webster's 1828 Dictionar (via [http://65.66.134.201/cgi-bin/webster/webster.exe?search_for_texts_web1828=mechanician this site])
*[http://www.wordsmyth.net/live/home.php?script=search&matchent=mechanician&matchtype=exact Wordsmyth]

[[zh:mechanician]]