==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# One who [[meddle]]s or [[interfere]]s in something not of their concern.
#*'''1759:''' Adam Smith, ''The theory of moral sentiments'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=582026070&tag=Smith,+Adam,+1723-1790:+The+theory+of+moral+sentiments,+1759&query=+meddler&id=SmiMora]
#*:The prudent man is not willing to subject himself to any responsibility which his duty does not impose upon him. He is not a bustler in business where he has no concern; is not a '''meddler''' in other people's affairs; is not a professed counsellor or adviser, who obtrudes his advice where nobody is asking it.
#*'''1868:''' Horatio Alger, ''Struggling Upward'' [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=65799616&tag=Alger,+Horatio,+1832-1899:+Struggling+Upward,+1868&query=+meddler&id=AlgStru]
#*:"Yes, Mr. Coleman, I have," answered Luke steadily. "I thought it my duty to inform this man of your character. I have advised him to put his money into a savings-bank."
#*:"Curse you for an impertinent '''meddler'''!" said Coleman wrathfully. "I'll get even with you for this!"
#*:"You can do as you please," said Luke calmly. 
#*'''1934:''' H. P. Lovecraft, ''Through the Gates of the Silver Key'' [http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Through_the_Gates_of_the_Silver_Key/Chapter_8]
#*:"Stop!" The hoarse, oddly alien voice of the Swami held a tone beyond all mere earthly fright "I told you there was another form of proof which I could give if necessary, and I warned you not to provoke me to it. This red-faced old '''meddler''' is right; I'm not really an East Indian. This face is a mask, and what it covers is not human.

====Synonyms====
*[[busybody]]
*[[kibitzer]]

[[vi:meddler]]
[[zh:meddler]]