==English==

===Pronunciation===
*mē'diə, /ˈmiːdiə/, /<tt>"mi:di@</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-iːdiə|Rhymes: -iːdiə]]

===Noun===
'''media''' (''plural:'' '''[[mediae]]''')

# {{italbrac|Anatomy}} the middle layer of the wall of a blood vessel or lymph vessel which is composed of connective and muscular tissue.  (tunica media, between the tunica interna and tunica externa).

====Usage notes====
Not to be confused with [[medium]].

===Noun===
'''media''' (''plural of'' '''[[medium]]''')

# Formats for presenting information.
#: ''Collage is a form of [[mixed-media|mixed-'''media''']] artwork.''
# {{italbrac|with a definite article}} The journalists and other professionals who compose the mass communication industry.

====Usage notes====
When referring to ''the media'', as in ''the mass media'', i.e., the mass-communication industry comprising journalism and entertainment, ''media'' is usually held to be a singular noun (because it is not the plural of ''medium''.  It is a term derived from the concept of an industry communicating through different media, e.g., newspapers, television, films, magazines).  In all other cases, it is the plural of ''medium'', whether one is referring to artistic media, storage media (e.g., blank media, such as CDs), media players, etc.

====Derived terms====
*[[mediagenic]] {{pos_a}}
*[[multimedia]]
*[[mass media]]
*[[mainstream media]]

[[Category:Disputed usage]]
[[Category:English words affected by prescriptivism]]
[[Category:English nouns with irregular plurals]]
[[Category:English plurals ending in "-a"]]

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''media''' {{f}}

# [[average]]

===Verb form===
'''media'''

# ''third-person singular indicative present of [[mediare]]''

===Related terms===
*[[mediale]]
*[[mediano]]

----

==Spanish==

===Noun===
'''media''' {{f}}

# [[sock]], [[stocking]]
#''(Math)'' [[mean]], [[average]]
# [[half]] an hour: ''son las cinco y media'' = it’s 5:30.

===Adjectives===
'''media''' {{f}}, [[medio]] {{m}}

# [[half]]: ''media hora'' = half an hour.
# [[middle]], [[mid]], in the middle of
# [[average]], [[mean]]

===Verb form===
'''media'''

#is [[halfway]], is in the middle, comes between, is intervening, [[elapse]]s (2nd- and 3rd-person singular present tense of [[mediar]])

[[Category:Italian nouns]]
[[Category:Spanish nouns]]

[[de:media]]
[[es:media]]
[[fr:media]]
[[io:media]]
[[id:media]]
[[hu:media]]
[[ru:media]]
[[simple:media]]
[[zh:media]]