==English==
===Interjection===
'''meef'''
# An interjection of strangled surprise or confusion.

===Quotations===
* '''1994,''' Don Blaheta, in <tt>rec.games.abstract</tt> [http://groups.google.com/group/rec.games.abstract/msg/507f9cb8139f0115?dmode=source&hl=en]
*: Also, I'd like NOMIC rules.  Someone said they had already been posted here, but I don't see them.  '''Meef.'''
* '''1998,''' V. Equinox, in <tt>alt.tv.xena</tt> [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.tv.xena/msg/74e998ca701f0cec?dmode=source&hl=en]
*: '''Meef.''' I'll have to keep my eyes open for that ep.
* '''1999,''' Lucretia Borgia, in <tt>uk.rec.motorcycles,alt.fan.ivan</tt> [http://groups.google.com/group/uk.rec.motorcycles/msg/6ddc47b60d15a7fc?dmode=source&hl=en]
*: '''Meef?''' Tune? I carry a tune like a Ninja carries a topbox...
* '''1999,''' who me? in <tt>rec.pets.cats.health+behav</tt> [http://groups.google.com/group/rec.pets.cats.health+behav/msg/319f5a8e14c4ac64?dmode=source&hl=en]
*: When I brought him home his favorite little girl sniffed him, made a '''meef!''' sound and ran away from him b/c he smelled funny from his trip to the vet.
* '''1999,''' Adrian Kleinbergen, in <tt>alt.nosebeeping</tt> [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.nosebeeping/msg/97636dbad3fe4410?dmode=source&hl=en]
*: Whenever I beep my wife's nose, she says "'''meef!'''"

----
{{rfv}}
===Etymology 1===
Coined approx 1993; onomatopoeic and influenced by ''[[meep]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun|meef|meefs}}
# The [[cry]] of a [[mongoose]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|meef|meefs|meefed|meefing}}
# Of a [[mongoose]], to make its [[cry]].
#:''The cat goes [[meow]], the cow goes [[moo]], and the mongoose goes '''meef'''.''
# To screw something up, or behave in an irritating or stupid fashion.
#:"If you're just going to '''meef''', get the hell out of here."
#:"Man, I '''meefed''' this definition good."

===Derived terms===
*[[meefy]]

===Etymology 2===
From German ''[[Mief]]'' (bad smell).

====Noun====
'''meef'''
# {{cattag|Slang}} term used in east Vancouver for undesirable person or situation
#*'''Usage note:''' Its overuse by various crews have made it a word much like ''[[smurf]]'', e.g "I '''meefed''' this '''meef''' right up!  '''MEEF'''!", "Yeah give me 1 order of Chicken '''Meefs'''," or "Call me later, i'm watching Star '''Meef'''".

===Etymology 3===
Coined from Eric Schlosser’s book “Fast Food Nation” in September of 2001 at Oberlin College, whereby the words meat and beef were combined.

====Noun====
# A [[grey]], food-like [[substance]] that tastes like neither [[beef]] or [[meat]].
#:"What’s that '''meef''' on your plate?"
#:"My favorite dish: [[eggs]], '''meef''', and [[cheese]]."  
#A pseudonym for [[marijuana]].
#:"I just bought some '''meef''' in Harlem!"''

====Exclamation====
# A state of euphoria or exaltation
#:"I just got laid last night, '''meef!'''."
# A Greeting or salutation
#:"'''Meef''', how are you?"

====Verb====
# To become stoned or high due to the effects of [[marijuana]].
#:"I just smoked a J, now I’m really '''meefed!'''
# To end up in a difficult spot due to external factors. 
#:"I got '''meefed''' by that quantum physics exam."
#:"I was in a bar fight last night and I got very '''meefed''' up!"

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]