==English==
===Etymology===
Popularized by the television show ''[[w:The Simpsons|The Simpsons]]'', specifically in the episode titled ''“[[w:Hungry Hungry Homer|Hungry Hungry Homer]]”'' (Season 12, Episode 15.)

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/mɛ/}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}
# [[mediocre|Mediocre]]; [[lackluster]]; [[unexceptional]]; [[uninspiring]].
#*'''2003:''' steve-o, ''Jam On The River Mini-Review'' [http://groups.google.com/group/rec.music.phish/browse_thread/thread/d3fe498689eb3d4f/44d89cbfe768dd0a?lnk=st&q=%22was+meh%22&rnum=122&hl=en#44d89cbfe768dd0a] in rec.music.phish
#*:They redeemed themselves with this show. The first song or two was '''meh''', but they were on fire after that. 
#*'''2006:''' Suzanne D., ''Recaps: Finals Week 8 Performances, 5/2/2006'' [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.tv.american-idol/browse_thread/thread/d8921c76f3f9fa51/1375c5cbd027720d?lnk=st&q=%22was+meh%22&rnum=6&hl=en#1375c5cbd027720d] in alt.tv.american-idol
#*:The voice is excellent as always, but the overall effect was '''meh''' until the end, where he became a little bit awesome. 
#*'''2006:''' FunkyM, ''Turned on RAW for the first time in forever last night...'' [http://groups.google.com/group/rec.sport.pro-wrestling/browse_thread/thread/45aeb89b4d6332d9/21a00974ffee427a?lnk=st&q=%22was+meh%22&rnum=4&hl=en#21a00974ffee427a] in rec.sport.pro.wrestling
#*:Nothing that was supposed to be big and exciting came off as such and the rest was '''meh''' at best.
# [[apathetic|Apathetic]]; [[unenthusiastic]].
#*'''2003:''' Dana, ''10/18/03 Shows'' [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.tv.trading-spaces/browse_thread/thread/c7c619842ff0cb0a/ac694f6e104582cb?lnk=st&q=%22feeling+meh%22&rnum=5&hl=en#ac694f6e104582cb] in alt.tv.trading-spaces
#*:Both shows left me feeling, '''meh'''. 
#*'''2004:''' jennifer, ''The FANtasia thing: I don't get it...'' [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.gossip.celebrities/browse_thread/thread/3490803d532f4e0b/7046706c7ba75389?lnk=st&q=%22feeling+meh%22&rnum=3&hl=en#7046706c7ba75389] in alt.gossib.celebrities 
#*:I'm a huge Clay fan, love Ruben's voice, and have become quite a fan of Kelly's, as well.  Fantasia just leaves me feeling '''meh'''.
#*'''2006:''' ettie...@hotmail.com, ''Steve's impressions on random Genesis games'' [http://groups.google.com/group/rec.games.video.sega/browse_thread/thread/94fcb6c9382f24f6/2d32eb3d2cea1c25?lnk=st&q=%22feeling+meh%22&rnum=1&hl=en#2d32eb3d2cea1c25] in rec.games.video.sega
#*:I liked it but I wasn't feeling it for some reason that day, again, I was feeling '''meh''' toward video games in general.

===Interjection===
'''meh'''

# {{cattag|slang}} [[I don't know|I don’t know]] (the verbal equivalent of a shrug of the shoulders).
# {{cattag|slang}} I don’t care.
#:''“What do you want for dinner?” &mdash; “'''Meh'''.  I’m not really hungry.”''
# {{cattag|slang}} I don’t particularly like or dislike it.
#:''“That film was awesome!” &mdash; “'''Meh'''.  I’ve seen better.”''
# {{cattag|slang}} I’m unhappy and not very energetic or enthusiastic.
#:''“How are you feeling today?” &mdash; “'''Meh'''...”''

====Translations====
*French: [[bof]]

----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
'''meh'''  (''plural:'' ''mehs'')

# [[month]]

----

==Slovene==

===Noun===
'''meh''' {{m}}

# [[bellows]]

[[ku:meh]]