MelungeonW

==English==

===Etymology===
There is much discussion and dispute over the etymology of this word.  There are three popular etymologies and many not so well known.  
#from melange, a mixture (from [[French]]).  Perhaps a variant spelling of melangian, a person derived from a racial melange.  A reasonable explanation, the oldest theory.
#from melun jinn ([[Arabic]], also found as meluncan in [[Turkish]]), lost soul or cursed soul.  Popular with those Melungeons who believe they are at least partly descended from Moors or Turks stranded in America.
#from malengine (Elizabethan [[English]]), source of evil (mal = bad, engine = producer).  Found in Spencer's "Faerie Queen", popular at time word first appeared.
#from melongene ([[French]] and British [[English]]), a word sometimes used for eggplant or aubergine.  Good fit phonetically, but no reasonable explanation for any connection.   

===Noun===
'''Melungeon'''

A member of one of several similar old mixed race groups.  The principal groups are found in eastern Tennessee (Rhea, Roane and Hamilton counties), northeastern Tennessee (Hancock, Hawkins and Grainger counties),  southwestern Virginia (Wise, Scott and Lee counties), southeastern Kentucky (Letcher county), eastern Kentucky (Magoffin and Floyd counties), and western Louisiana and eastern Texas, along the Sabine river.  There was a group in west Florida, but it has disappeared.  There are smaller groups in northern Alabama and southern West Virginia, etc.   Some of the eastern Kentucky group settled in southern Ohio, where they are usually known as the Carmel Indians, but are now being included in the Melungeons.  The biggest group is the eastern Tennessee group, usually called Graysville Melungeons after the town of Graysville in Rhea county, which is the only incorporated town to have a Melungeon majority.  The groups in northeastern Tennessee, where most of the early studies were done, and southwestern Virginia, where the term melungeon was first used, are better known, however.  

The nature of the mixture which produced the Melungeons is disputed at great length, it differs somewhat from group to group.  A large white component is obvious.  Most Melungeons claim some Native American, many also claim black ancestry.  Many claim the white part includes a Mediterranean element, Moorish, Sephardic Jewish, Portuguese, Spanish, Turkish, etc.   

===Related terms===

[[Mestee]]

===See also===

*[http://www.melungeon.org/ Melungeon Heritage Association]

*[http://www.melungeon.org/?BISKIT=1554385500&CONTEXT=cat&cat=10005 About the Melungeons]

*[http://www.melungeon.org/?BISKIT=1554385500&CONTEXT=cat&cat=10061 The Graysville Melungeons]

*[http://www.melungeon.org/?BISKIT=1554385500&CONTEXT=cat&cat=10059 The Carmel Melungeons of Ohio]

*[http://www.melungeons.com/articles/apr2004.htm#top The Influence of Sephardic Jews and Moors on Southeastern Indian Cultures]