==English==

===Etymology===
From Greek word μετάνοια, "after/behind  one's mind", it is a compound word of the preposition 'meta' (after, with), and the verb 'noeo' (to perceive, to think, the result of perceiving or observing). 

In this compound word the preposition combines the two meanings of time and change, which may be denoted by 'after' and 'different'; so that the whole compound means: 'to think differently after'. Metanoia is therefore primarily an after-thought, different from the former thought; a change of mind accompanied by regret and change of conduct [http://www.preceptaustin.org/2_peter_39-10.htm].

However, the prefix "meta-" carries with it other variants that are consistent with the Eastern Greek philosophical mindset, and perhaps is at odds with Western views. "Meta-" is additionally used to imply "beyond" and "outside of." E.g., metamorphosis as a beyond-change; and, metaphysics as outside the limits of physics. The word ''metanoia'' has taken on an in-vogue usage among interfaith dialogues as simply meaning "a change of heart." Though this is close to its Christian theological meaning, perhaps one may conclude that metanoia is "taking one's mind/thoughts beyond and outside of one's habituations." Yes, English translators of the Christian Scriptures fail to find a proper corresponding word for metanoia, so they fall back upon the comfort and ease of the word ''repent''. Yet repent carries with it a negative tone, almost an inhibition caused by guilt; metanoia forces a positive, proactive life-affirming response. When Jesus calls people to "repent," to "metanoia," could it be that he means: "Change your thought-processes and go beyond your mind's present state of limitations"? Does this not mandate self-assessment and interpersonal acceptance? Perhaps the inclusionary value of "metanoia" is voided by the exclusionary term "repent." Repent does not imply the act of forgiving, but of being forgiven; metanoia recognizes to-forgive and to-be-forgiven are symbiotic. [ref. Prof Dr Anastasios Zavales PhD. ''Life As Process - Freedom As Communion: Eastern Orthodox Christian Ontology & Ecumenics''. Ecumenics Int'l Press, 1995, ''passim'']

The word occurs 22 times in the original [[Greek]] version of the [[New Testament]] [http://www.preceptaustin.org/2_peter_39-10.htm], and is usually translated as [[repentance]] in the [[KJV]] ([[repent]] is translated from the Greek word ''[[metanoeo]]'').

The parable of the [[prodigal son]] found in the [[Gospel of Luke]] is one of the key passages describing the act of repentance.

===Noun===
#"Repentance," as translated by biblical scholars.
#"New mind" or "above mind"
#"A deep spiritual, life altering reversion to God" in the [[Christian]] context