===Alternative Spellings===
:[[meter]]
===Etymology===
From ancient [[Greek]]: ''&#956;&#949;&#964;&#961;&#959;&#957;'' (''metron''), "measure", "rule", "length", "size", "poetic metre"; via [[Latin]] ''metrum'' and [[French]] ''mètre''
===Pronunciation===
:[[International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: /ˈmiːtə(r)/
:[[SAMPA]]: /"mi:t@(r)/

===Noun===
#The rhythm or measure in verse and musical composition.
#:'''Derived terms'''
#:*[[metronome]]
#The [[SI base unit|basic unit]] of [[length]] in the [[International System of Units]] (SI: Systéme International d'Unités). It is defined as the [[length]] of the path travelled by [[light]] in [[vacuum]] during a [[time]] interval of 1/299,792,458 of a [[second]]. It is equal to 39.37 [[Imperial]] [[inch]]es.
#:'''Spelling''': This, rather than ''meter'', is the spelling adopted by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures.
#:'''Symbol''': m
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1797''' The measures of length above the metre are ten times [etc.]...greater than the metre. - ''The Monthly magazine and British register'', No. 3
#:*'''1873''' A dress length of 8 metres of the best quality costs 58 francs. - ''The Young Englishwoman'', April
#:*'''1928''' The 12-metre yachts...can be sailed efficiently with four paid hands. - ''The Observer'', April 15
#:'''Derived terms'''
#:*[[metrology]]
#:*See [http://www1.bipm.org/en/si/prefixes.html SI prefixes]
#:'''References'''
#:*[http://www1.bipm.org/en/si/base_units/metre.html International Bureau of Weights and Measures]

===Further Reading===
* [[w:metre|Wikipedia article]]

===Translations===
:[[Chinese]]: [[米]]
:[[Dutch]]: [[meter]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[teller]] ''m'' (1)
:[[Finnish]]: [[metri]] (1, 2)
:[[French]]: [[mètre]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[compteur]] ''m'' (1)
:[[German]]: [[Meter]] ''m'' (2), [[Metrum]] ''n'' (1)
:[[Greek]]: [[ ]] (metro)
:[[Interlingua]]: [[metro]] (1, 2); [[contator]] (1)
:[[Italian]]: [[metro]] ''m'' (1)
:[[Japanese]]: [[メートル]] (mētoru)
:[[Polish]]: [[metr]] ''m''
:[[Portuguese]]: [[metro]] ''m'' (1, 2); [[medidor]] ''m'', [[contador]] ''m'' (1)
:[[Romanian]]: [[metru]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[contor]] ''n'' (1)
:[[Russian]]: [[метр]] ''m'' [metr] (1, 2), [[размер]] ''n'' [pazmer] (1)
:[[Spanish]]: [[metro]] ''m'' (2), [[medidor]] ''m'' (1), [[contador]] ''m'' (1)
:[[Swedish]]: [[meter]] (1, 2), [[mätare]] (1)
:[[Turkish]]: metre
:[[Vietnamese]]: [[mét]] (2), [[nhịp phách]] (1)