==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|mĭl}}, {{IPA|/mɪl/}}, {{SAMPA|/mIl/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪl|-ɪl]]

====Homophones====
*[[mil]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[mylen]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A grinding apparatus for substances such as grains, seeds, etc.
# The buiding housing such a grinding apparatus.
# A manufacturing plant for paper, steel, textiles, etc.
# A building housing such a plant.
# An establishment that handles a certain type of situation routinely, such as a divorce mill, etc.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''plant, building''): [[factory]], [[works]]

=====Derived terms=====
*[[all grist to one's mill]]
*[[miller]]
*[[millhouse]]
*[[milling]]
*[[millstone]]
*[[paper mill]]
*[[rumor mill]], [[rumour mill]]
*[[steel mill]]
*[[windmill]]

=====Translations=====
'''grinding apparatus or the building housing it'''
{{top}}
*Croatian: [[mlin]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[molen]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[mylly]]
*French: [[moulin]] {{m}}
*German: [[Mühle]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[malom]]
*Italian: [[mulino]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Old High German: [[mulin]] {{f}}
*Polish: [[młyn]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[moenda]] {{f}}, [[moinho]] {{m}}
*Slovenian: [[mlin]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[molino]] {{m}}
*Turkish: [[değirmen]]
{{bottom}}

'''manufacturing plant'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[fabriek]] {{f}} (''general''), [[papierfabriek]] {{f}} (''for paper''), [[staalfabriek]] (''for steel'') [[textielfabriek]] (''for textiles'')
*Finnish: [[tehdas]]
*French: [[manufacture]] {{f}}
*German: [[Fabrik]] {{f}} (''general''), [[Werk]] {{n}} (''general'') [[Papiermühle]] {{f}} (''for paper'')
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[fabryka]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[fábrica]] {{f}}, [[manufatura]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[fabrica]] {{f}}
*Turkish: [[fabrika]]
{{bottom}}

'''building'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[fabriek]] {{f}} (''general''), [[papierfabriek]] {{f}} (''for paper''), [[staalfabriek]] (''for steel'') [[textielfabriek]] (''for textiles'')
*Finnish: [[tehdas]], [[tehdasrakennus]]
*French: [[manufacture]] {{f}}
*German: [[Fabrik]] {{f}} (''general''), [[Werk]] {{n}} (''general'') [[Papiermühle]] {{f}} (''for paper'')
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[fabryka]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[fabrica]] {{f}}
*Turkish: [[bina]], [[yapı]]
{{bottom}}

'''establishment that handles a certain type of situation routinely'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[papiermolen]] (~ burocracy)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[fabrica]], [[molino]]
*{{ttbc|Kashubian}}: [[młin]] {{m}} (3)
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[mølle]]

===Etymology 2===
Ultimately from Latin ''[[millesimum]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An obsolete coin with value one-thousandth of a dollar.

=====Translations=====
'''coin'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
From the noun ''mill''

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[grind]] or otherwise process in a mill or other machine.
#: ''to mill flour''
# {{transitive}} To [[shape]], [[polish]], [[dress]] or [[finish]] using a machine.
# {{transitive}} To [[engrave]] one or more [[groove]]s or a pattern around the edge of (a [[cylindrical]] object such as a coin).
# {{intransitive}} (''followed by'' '''around''', '''about''', ''etc.'') To move about in an [[aimless]] fashion.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''move about in an aimless fashion''): [[roam]], [[wander]]

=====Translations=====
'''grind or process using a mill or other machine'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[malen]]
*Finnish: [[jauhaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''shape, polish, etc, using a machine'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[slijpen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''engrave groove around the edge of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[graveren]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''move about in an aimless fashion'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
Latin [[milium]]

===Noun===
'''mill'''

# [[millet]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

----

==Irish==

===Verb===
'''mill'''

# To [[spoil]]

[[Category:Irish verbs]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Verb===
'''Mill'''

# To [[destroy]], to [[ruin]].

----

==Wiradhuri==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[mil]]

===Noun===
'''mill'''

# [[eye]]

[[Category:Wiradhuri nouns]]

[[fr:mill]]
[[io:mill]]
[[it:mill]]
[[la:mill]]
[[hu:mill]]
[[fi:mill]]
[[ta:mill]]
[[vi:mill]]
[[zh:mill]]