{{webster}}
==English==
=== Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /mɪns/
*[[SAMPA]]: /mIns/

===Transitive verb===
'''to mince''' ('''mincing''', '''minced''', '''minced''')

#To cut into very small pieces; to chop fine. 
#To suppress or weaken the force of; to extenuate; to  palliate; to tell by degrees, instead of directly and frankly; to clip, as words or expressions; to utter half and keep back half of.
#:''I know no ways to mince it in love, but directly to say &mdash; "I love you."'' &mdash; [[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]]
#:Current usage limited to phrases of the form "..... mince words with ..." ''e.g. "I won't mince words with you"''
#To affect; to make a parade of.

====Translations====

'''chop fine'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Italian: [[tritare]]

|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
*Persian: [[خرد کردن]] (khord-kardan)
|}

===Intransitive verb===
'''to mince''' ('''mincing''', '''minced''', '''minced''')

#To walk with short steps; to walk in a prim, affected manner.
#:''The daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with  stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, mincing       as they go.'' --[[Is.]] III. 16.
#:''I'll turn two mincing steps Into a manly  stride.'' &mdash; [[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]]
#To act or talk with affected nicety; to affect delicacy in manner.
 
===Noun===
'''mince''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''minces''')

#(''uncountable'') Finely chopped meat.
#(''countable'') A short, precise step.
#(''countable'') An affected manner.

====Translations====

'''finely chopped meat'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Italian: [[macinata]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''short precise step'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''affected manner'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}