==English==
===Possessive pronoun===
'''mine'''

#That which belongs to [[me]]; the possessive case of [[I]], used without a following noun.

====Translations====
*[[Breton]]: [[ma hini]] ''singular'', [[ma re]] ''plural''
*Dutch: [[het mijne]]
*Finnish: [[minun]], [[mun#Finnish|mun]] (''colloquial'')
*French: [[mien|le mien]] ''m singular'', [[mienne|la mienne]] ''f singular'', [[miens|les miens]] ''m plural'', [[miennes|les miennes]] ''f plural''
*:'''Note:''' ''In French, the gender of this pronoun agrees with the thing(s) owned, not with the owner.''
*Italian: [[mio|il mio]] ''m singular'', [[mia|la mia]] ''f singular'', [[miei|i miei]] ''m plural'', [[mie|le mie]] ''f plural''
*:'''Note:''' ''In Italian, the gender of this pronoun agrees with the thing(s) owned, not with the owner.''
*Latvian: [[mans]] ''m singular'', [[mana]] ''f singular'', [[mani]] ''m plural'', [[manas]] ''f plural''
*:'''Note:''' ''In Latvian, the gender of this pronoun agrees with the thing(s) owned, not with the owner.''
*[[Pitjantjatjara]]: [[ngayuku]]
*Polish: [[mój]] ''m'', [[moja]] ''f'', [[moje]] ''n''
*Romanian: [[al meu]] ''m'' , [[a mea]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[lo mio]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[min]] ''c'', [[mitt]] ''n'', [[mina]] ''plural''

===Noun===
'''mine''' (plural: [[mines]])

#A place in the ground from which [[ore]] is extracted.
#A device intended to explode when stepped upon, touched, or in proximity to a ship or vehicle.
#A type of [[firework]] that explodes on the ground, shooting sparks upward.

====Related terms====
*[[coal mine]]
*[[land mine]], [[landmine]]
*[[minefield]]
*[[mine of information]]
*[[mine shaft]]

====Translations====

'''place from which ore is extracted'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[kaivos]]
*French: mine ''f''
*German: [[Grube]] ''f'', Mine ''f'', [[Bergwerk]] ''n''
*Italian: [[miniera]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Latvian: [[raktuve]]
*Portuguese: [[mina#Portuguese|mina]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[mina#Spanish|mina]] ''f''
*{{sv}}: [[gruva]] ''c''
*{{cy}}: [[cloddfa]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''exploding device'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[miina]]
*French: mine ''f''
*German: Mine ''f''
*Italian: [[mina#Italian|mina]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Latvian: [[mīna]]
*Portuguese: [[mina#Portuguese|mina]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[mina#Swedish|mina]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''firework'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*[[Breton]]: [[mengleuz]] ''f'' -ioù (1), [[min]] ''m'' (2, 3)
*Dutch: [[mijn]] ''f''
*[[Indonesian]]: [[tambang]] (1), [[ranjau]] (2)
*Japanese: [[鉱山]] (こうざん, kōzan) (1), [[地雷]] (じらい, jirai) (2)
*[[Khmer]]: [[មីន]] (2)
*Korean: [[광산]] ([[鑛山]], kwangsan) (1), [[지뢰]] ([[地雷]], jiroe)
*Polish: [[kopalnia]] ''f'' (1), [[mina]] ''f'' (2)
*Romanian: [[mină]] (1, 2)
*Slovene: [[rudnik]] ''m'' (1), [[mina]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: mina ''f''
*[[Thai]]: {{THchar|[[เหมืองแร่]]}} (1), {{THchar|[[กับระเบิด]]}} (2)

===Transitive verb===
'''to mine''' (mining, [[mined]], mined)

#To remove (ore) from the ground.
#To sow mines (the explosive devices) in (an area).
#To damage (a vehicle or ship) with a mine (an explosive device).

====Related terms====
*[[miner]]
*[[mining]]

====Translations====

'''remove from the ground'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[louhia]], [[kaivaa]]
*Italian: [[scavare]], [[estrarre]]
*Latvian: [[iegūt]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Portuguese: [[explorar]], [[minar]]
*Spanish: [[extraer]]
|}
|}

'''sow mines in'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*Finnish: [[miinoittaa]]
*Italian: mettere mine in
*Latvian: [[mīnēt]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Portuguese: [[minar]]
*Spanish: [[minar]]
|}
|}

'''damage with a mine'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Latvian: [[mīnēt]], [[spridzināt]]
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*[[Breton]]: [[mengleuziañ]] (1), [[minañ]] (2)
*German: [[verminen]] (2)
*Polish: [[wydobywać]] (1), [[minować]] (2)
*Slovene: [[kopati rudo]] (1), [[minirati]] (2), [[polagati mine]] (2)

----

==German==

===Noun===
'''Mine''' ''f'' (''plural'' '''[[Minen]]''')

#mine (''explosive device'')
#mine (''place where ore is removed'')

[[Category:English first person pronouns]]

[[et:Mine]]
[[fr:mine]]
[[it:mine]]
[[ja:mine]]
[[pl:Mine]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Mining]]