==English==

{{webster}}
===Etymology===
Middle English ''mengel'' from the noun ''meng'', compare Old English ''[[mengan]]''.  Cognate with Dutch, German [[mengen]].  Related to [[among]], [[mongrel]].

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪŋɡəl|-ɪŋɡəl]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|mingl|ing}}

# To mix; intermix; to combine or join, as an individual or part, with other parts, but commonly so as to be distinguishable in the product; to confuse; to confound.
#:''There was... fire '''mingled''' with the hail.'' Ex. ix. 24.
#: ''Across the city yesterday, there was a feeling of bittersweet reunion as streams of humanity converged and mingled at dozens of memorial services.'' &mdash; [http://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/11/nyregion/nyregionspecial3/11bush.html?hp&ex=1158033600&en=e468f88da52557ed&ei=5094&partner=homepage New York Times]
# To associate or unite in society or by ties of relationship; to cause or allow to intermarry; to intermarry.
#:''The holy seed have '''mingled''' themselves with the people of those lands.'' Ezra ix. 2.
# To deprive of purity by mixture; to [[contaminate]].
#:''A '''mingled''', imperfect virtue.''  -Rogers.
# {{obsolete}}: To put together; to join.  Shak.
# To make or prepare by mixing the ingredients of.
#:''[He] proceeded to '''mingle''' another draught.''  -Hawthorne.
# {{intransitive}} To become mixed or blended.

====Translations====
*Old English: [[mengan]]
===Noun===
'''mingle'''
# {{obsolete}}: A mixture.

[[fa:mingle]]
[[fr:mingle]]
[[vi:mingle]]
[[zh:mingle]]