'''Mise en place''' [MEEZ ahn plahs], literally translated from [[French language|French]], means "''setting in place''."  When cooking, the term is used to describe preparation done before starting the actual cooking process.

[[Recipes]] are reviewed, to check for necessary ingredients and equipment.  Ingredients are measured out, washed, chopped and placed in individual bowls.  Equipment such as [[spatula|spatulas]] and [[blender (device)|blenders]] are prepared for use, while [[ovens]] are preheated.  Preparing the ''mise en place'' ahead of time allows the [[chef]] to cook without having to stop and assemble items, which is desirable in recipes with time constraints. Also refers to the preparation and layouts that are set up and used by line cooks at their stations in a commercial or restaurant kitchen.

Mise en place is not only a staple of organization in the kitchen, but a philosophy of how to live your life.  The concept of having everything in its place as applied to the work in a kitchen more than likely became a staple around the time of Escoffier, who is well known for his development of the brigade system of running a kitchen.  Having everything in its place obviously has its advantages.  It must be understood, that work must be put into the process before it can pay off.  Parsley must be chopped and put in its place.  Shallots must be chopped and put in their place.  Laundry must be washed and folded before it can be put in its place, etc.  This constant attention to having everything in its place is rich in philosophical value.  For example, the Yin and Yang, applying control to chaos, and ultimately our place in the universe are just some of the many philisophical applications of the concept of Mise en Place.


==See also==
*[[List of food preparation utensils]]
*[[Mise en scene]]

[[Category:Cooking]]
[[Category:French phrases]]

[[de:Mise en place]]
[[fr:Mise en place]]

{{Food-stub}}