==English==
===Noun===
'''mobility'''
# [[ability]] to [[move]]

[[zh:mobility]]
Mobility is the ability and willingness to move or change; this can depend on motor skills, special tools such as a walking stick, walker, mobile standing frame or wheelchair, vehicles, uncongested roads, public transport; mobility with regard to one's home depends on availability of houses and being bound to an area because of a job or school, etc. Mobility with regard to one's job depends on availability of jobs (depending on the general job market and on one's versatility, quality, etc. ), mobility with regard to one's home, etc.

In solid state physics, mobility generally refers to electron mobility or hole mobility. 
In chemistry, mobility refers to the electrophoretic mobility of charged species. 
In mobile computing, mobility refers to characteristics of device to handle information access, communication and business transactions while in state of motion. 
Academic mobility refers to the possibility for students and teachers to move between different institutions inside and outside their own country. 
Apprentices mobility refers to students and teachers in VET moving to another institution inside or outside their own country to study or teach for a limited time. Apprentices mobility suffers from cultural, socio-economical and academic barriers. Under the Lisbon agenda attempts are made to lower these obstacles within the European VET arena. 
Social mobility refers to the ability of individuals within a society to move between different social levels 
Mobility is also a computer game. 
In demography the mobility of a population measures migration within a population.