==English==
===Spellings===
*17th C.: [[Montenchuma]]
*17th C. to 19th C.: [[Moteçuma]]
*19th C.: [[Muteçuma]]
*20th C.: [[Montezúma]]
*19th C. to 21st C.: [[Montezuma]], [[Moteuczoma]]
*20th C. to 21st C.: [[Moctezuma]], [[Motecuzoma]], [[Motecuhzoma]]
===Etymology===
From Classical Nahuatl ''[[Moteuczoma]]'', "he who frowns like a lord", from ''[[mo-]]'' ([[reflexive]] prefix) + ''[[teuctli|teuc-]]'' "lord" + ''[[mozoma|-zoma]]'' "to frown in anger".
===Proper noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''Moctezuma'''

# Aztec emperor from 1440 to 1469.
# Aztec emperor from 1502 to 1520, during which time the Spanish conquest of Mexico began.
===Usage note===
The second Moctezuma is the one most commonly referred to. The two may be distinguished by regnal numbers (''M. I, M. II''), or by their special names ''M. [[Ilhuicamina]]'' and ''M. [[Xocoyotzin]]'', respectively.
===Quotations===
*'''1604:''' Jose de Acosta, ''Natural and Moral History of the East and West Indies''
*:'''''Moteçuma''''' therefore, having notice of this Captaines victories, that he advanced for his conquest, that hee was confederate and ioyned with them of ''Tlascalla'', his capitall enemies, ...
*'''1655:''' J. Phillips (translator), ''The Tears of the Indians''
*:Departing from ''Cholula'' they came to ''Mexico'', the King whereof '''''Montenchuma''''' sent the Peers and Nobles of this Realm with innumerable presents to meet them, who all the way testified by several sports and solemnities, the joy which they had for their arrivall; When they approached neer the wal of the City, the Kings Brother came forth with many Noble men to meet him, who brought many gifts of Gold and Silver, to present them with.
*'''1811:''' Robert Kerr, ''A General History of Voyages and Travels to the End of the 18th Century''
*:Tendilli sent immediate intelligence to '''Muteçuma''', that there had arrived in his country a bearded people, for so they called the Castilians. On the reception of this news, '''Moteçuma''' was greatly troubled, for his gods, or devils rather, had revealed that a people of the description of these Spaniards was to overthrow his law and dominion, and to become lords of the country; wherefore '''Muteçuma''' sent gifts to the value of twenty thousand ducats to Cortes, but refused any interview.
*'''1835:''' Robert Charles Sands, ''The Writings of Robert C. Sands''
*:At length the King of Tezcuco was notified of her resurrection; and, on his representation, '''Moteuczoma''' himself, full of terror, visited her with his chief nobility.
*'''1867:''' ''The Esquimaux,'' Vol. 1 No. 4
*:If it is not imagining too much, may not some of our Monroe doctrine upholders, have made him skedaddle before this time, and who knows, but the American flag now waves on the halls of '''Montezuma'''!
*'''1902:''' Charles Fletcher Lummis, ''The Awakening of a Nation: Mexico of Today''
*:... summer home of '''Motecuzoma''', a palace of the Viceroys from Galvez* down, and the chosen spot of Maximilian and Carlota.
*'''1985:''' Archibald MacLeish, ''Collected Poems, 1917-1982''
*:Dawn on the wall-head there: and '''Montezúma'''
*:Clad in the gold cloth: gilded: and he smiled:
*'''1995:''' Tony D. Triggs, ''Aztecs''
*:With the water birds '''Montezuma''' kept people whose eyebrows, hair and bodies were completely white.
*'''2003:''' Francis Brooks, ''The Impact of Disease,'' in ''Technology, Disease, and Colonial Conquests, Sixteenth to Eighteenth Centuries''
*:The antithesis is embodied in the personalities of Cortés and '''Motecuzoma''': Cortés machiavellian, resourceful, manipulative and intrepid; '''Motecuzoma''' fearful of his gods, crippled by superstition and unable to make up his mind whether to welcome the strangers or push them back into the sea.
*'''2003:''' J. Richard Andrews, ''Introduction to Classical Nahuatl'' (revised edition)
*:They said to him, “Are you '''Moteuczoma'''?” He said, “Indeed I am the one who is your governor, '''Moteuczoma'''.”
*'''2004:''' Joanie Sanchez, ''Adventure Guides Mexico's Gulf Coast''
*:When Cortés reached the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlán, '''Moctezuma''', left, welcomed him, and housed and fed his troops.
*'''2005:''' John Pohl, Charles M. Robinson, ''Aztecs and Conquistadores''
*:'''Motecuhzoma''' agreed, but replied that he would have to stay, and pray and make sacrifices to ask pardon of the gods for bringing the Spaniards.