==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin [[modellus]], diminutive form of Latin [[modulus]] (small measure).

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A person who serves as a subject for artwork or fashion, usually in the [[medium]] of photography but also for painting or drawing.
#:''The beautiful model had her face on the cover of almost every fashion magazine imaginable.''
#A miniature representation of.
#:''The boy played with a model of a World War II fighter plane.''
#A simplified representation (usually mathematical) used to explain the workings of a [[real world]] system or event.
#:''The computer weather model did not correctly predict the path of the hurricane.''
# A [[style]], [[type]], or [[design]].
#:''He decided to buy the [[turbo engine]] model of the sports car.''
# The [[structural]] [[design]] of a [[complex]] [[system]].
#:''The team developed a sound business model''

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Dutch: model (all meanings); [[mannequin]] (1, but only for fashion shows
*Finnish: [[malli]] (1-4), [[mannekiini]] (1), [[pienoismalli]] (2)
*French: [[mannequin]] ''m'' (1-fashion), [[modèle]] ''m'' (1-art,3,4,5), [[modéle réduit]] ''m'' (2)
{{mid}}
*German: Modell
*Spanish: [[modelo]] {{m}}, [[maqueta]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
*[[supermodel]]

===Adjective===
'''model'''
#Serving as an example of something.
#:''The couple inspected the model home with a [[real estate]] [[agent]].''
#Worthy of being a model; [[exemplary]].
#:''He was a model student.''
#Being a small copy of something.
#:''model airplane.''

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Dutch: [[model-]] (all meanings)
*Finnish: [[malli-]] (1,2), [[esikuvallinen]] (2)
*French: [[témoin]] (1-house,flat...), [[modèle]] (2)
*German: Modell-

====Synonyms====
*[[ideal]]

===Verb===
'''to model''' ([[models]], [[modeled]] or [[modelled]], [[modeling]] or [[modelling]])
#To display an object for others to see, especially in regard to wearing clothing while performing the role of a fashion model.
#:''She modelled the shoes for her friends to see.''
#To use as an object in the creation of a [[forecast]] or model.
#:''They modelled the data with a computer to analyze the experiment's results.''
#To make a miniature model of.
#:''He takes great pride in his skill at modeling airplanes.''
#To create from a substance such as clay.
#:''The sculptor modelled the clay into the form of a dolphin.''
#To be a model.
#:''The [[actress]] used to model before being discovered by [[Hollywood]].''

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Finnish: [[esitellä]] (1), [[mallintaa]] (2), [[muovata]] (4), [[muodostaa]] (4), [[työskennellä]] [[malli|mallina]] (5)
*French: [[modéliser]] (2), [[modeler]] (4)

===Related words===
*[[modeler]]

==Romanian==
===Noun===
'''model''' ''f'' (''plural:'' [[modele]])
#[[template]]

[[fr:model]]
[[io:model]]
[[id:model]]
[[it:model]]
[[ku:model]]
[[hu:model]]
[[pl:model]]
[[sl:model]]
[[fi:model]]
[[zh:model]]