==Pronunciation==
IPA: ˈmʌn.i

The medium of exchange by which things are bought and sold in a non-[[barter]] society. Before the widespread use of paper money, money was usually made out of precious elements such as gold, platinum and silver. In a modern society money can be paper not even based on precious metals. Increasingly, most societies are slowly migrating away from even paper and towards binary values stored in databases.

==[[Noun]]==

#Some currency.
#Hard cash, as opposed to cheques or credit cards.
#Assets such as houses or cars which show you have money.
#Richness, rich people-particularly those who didn't inherit it.
#A person who funds an operation.

===Translations===

*[[Basque]]: [[diru]]
*[[Chinese]]: [[錢]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[geld]] ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[mono]]
*[[Finnish]]: [[raha]]
*[[French]]: [[argent]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[jild]] ''n''
*[[German]]: [[Geld]] ''f''
*[[Guarani]]: [[pirapire]]
*[[Hebrew]]: [[כסף]] ''m''
*[[Indonesian]]: [[uang]], [[duit]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[moneta]], [[pecunia]], [[denario]]
*[[Italian]]: [[moneta]] ''f'', [[denaro]] ''m'', [[soldi]] ''m pl''
*[[Japanese]]: [[お金]] ([[おかね]], okane), [[金]] ([[かね]], kane)
*[[Korean]]: [[돈]] (don)
*[[Polish]]: [[pieniądze]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[dinheiro]] ''m''
*[[Romanian]]: [[bani]] ''m'' ''pl''
*[[Romanica]]: [[moneta]] ''f'', [[pecunia]] ''f'', [[denario]] ''m''
*[[Russian]]: [[деньги]] ''pl''
*[[Spanish]]: [[dinero]] ''m''
*[[Swedish]]: [[pengar]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[mon]]

==Adjective==

Economic, economical.