{{see|mongol}}

==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒŋɡəl|-ɒŋɡəl]]

===Proper noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''Mongol''' (''plural:'' '''[[Mongols]]''')
# A person from [[Mongolia]]; a [[Mongolian]].
# A member of any of the various Mongol ethnic groups living in The Mongolian People's Republic, the (former) USSR, Tibet and Nepal.
# (''usually'' '''mongol''') A person with [[Down's syndrome]].
# A member of the nomadic people from the [[steppe]]s of central Asia who invaded Europe in the 13th Century. The mongol Empire stretched from the Eastern seas of China to the gates of Vienna.
#* ''Mathew Paris Chron. Maj. iv.76ff, Translated from The journey of William Rubruck (Hakluyt Society, 2nd series, no.4; 1900) pp. xv-xvi''.
#:: They are inhuman and beastly, rather monsters than men, thirsting for and drinking blood, tearing and devouring the flesh of dogs and men, dressed in ox-hides, armed with plates of iron short, stout, thickset, strong, invincible, indefatigable, their backs unprotected, their breasts covered with armour...They have one-edged swords and daggers and spare neither age, nor sex nor condition.

====Related terms====
*[[Mongolia]]
*[[Mongolian]]
*[[mongolism]]
*[[mongoloid]]
*[[Golden Horde]]
====Translations====
;person from Mongolia
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[Mongool]] {{m}}, [[Mongoolse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;member of ethnic groups
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[Mongool]] {{m}}, [[Mongoolse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;someone with Down's syndrome
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[Mongool]] {{m}}, [[Mongoolse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;member of the nomadic people
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[Mongool]] {{m}}, [[Mongoolse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===References===
*'''1992''' Webster's New World Encyclopedia. Prentice Hall
*'''1970''' R C H Davis A History of Medieval Europe. Longman SBN 582 48208 9. P404 et. seq.

[[nl:Mongol]]
[[sl:Mongol]]
[[sv:Mongol]]