:{{see|Monster}}
==English==
===Etymology===
From Latin '''[[monstrare]]''', ''show'', in the sense of ''"present something to look at"''

===Pronunciation===
*mŏn'stə(r), /ˈmɒnstə(r)/, /"mQnst@(r)/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɒnstə(r)|Rhymes: -ɒnstə(r)]]

===Noun===
'''monster''', plural '''[[monster]]s'''

#A terrifying and dangerous creature.
#A [[bizarre]] or [[whimsical]] creature.
#:''The children decided Grover was a cuddly monster.''
#An extremely [[anti-social]] person, especially a criminal.
#(''figuratively''): A badly behaved child.
#:''Sit still, you little monster!''
#{{bodybuilding}}: A bodybuilder of exceptionally large [[weight]] and [[proportion]]s, typically weighing more than 135 kilos (300 lbs).

====Derived terms====
*[[cookie monster]]
*[[monstrous]]
*[[monstrosity]]
*[[Frankenstein's monster]]
*the [[Loch Ness monster]]
*[[monster truck]]


====Translations====

'''terrifying dangerous creature'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Chinese: [[妖怪]] (yāo guài)
*Danish: [[Uhyre]] ''t''<!-- really capitalised? which gender? -->
*Dutch: monster ''n''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[monstro]]
*Finnish: [[hirviö]]
*French: [[monstre]] ''m''
*German: Monster ''n'', [[Ungeheuer]] ''n''
*Greek: [[τέρας]] ''n'' (t&eacute;ras)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{is}}: [[ófreskja]]
*Italian: [[mostro]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[怪物]] (かいぶつ)、[[モンスター]] (monsutā)
*Korean: [[괴물]] (goemur)
*Latin: [[monstrum]]
*Old English: [[þyrs]]
*Russian: [[изверг]] ''m'' (izverg)
*Spanish: [[monstruo]] ''m''
|}
|}

'''anti-social person, especially a criminal'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[hirviö]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''badly behaved child'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[riiviö]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Adjective===
'''monster''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#Very large; worthy of a monster.
#:''He has a monster appetite.''

====Translations====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[hirveä]], [[valtava]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Derived Terms===
*[[monstrous]]
*[[monstrously]]

===Related Terms===
*[[demonstrate]]
*[[demonstration]]
*[[monstrance]]
*[[remonstrate]]

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''monster''' {{n}} (''plural:'' '''monsters''')
#A terrifying and dangerous creature.
#Small, representative quantity of a substance or material, as used for analysis or selection.
#:''De inspectie heeft een '''monster''' van het water genomen.'' - ''The inspection took a sample of the water.''
#:''We hebben '''monsters''' van alle soorten behang.'' - ''We have samples of all types of wallpaper.''
#An extremely [[anti-social]] person, especially a criminal.

====Translations====
'''small quantity'''
{{top}}
*English: [[sample]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English nouns]][[Category:English adjectives]][[Category:Dutch nouns]]

[[fr:monster]]
[[io:monster]]
[[it:monster]]
[[hu:monster]]
[[fi:monster]]
[[zh:monster]]