==English==
===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /mʊɹ/

===Etymology 1===
From the French ''More'', ''Maure''; from the Latin ''Maurus'', a Moor, meaning a Mauritanian, an inhabitant of Mauritania. ''Webster 1913 also says: <B>Gr. ?; cf. ? black, dark. Cf. {Morris} a dance, {Morocco}</B> but I don't know what that means so I can't adapt it.'' [[Morris dance]] is from the ME ''moreys daunce'', "Moorish dance". The Moroccan connection is doubtful, as Morocco is from Marrakech, itself from the Berber ''murt 'n akush'', "the country of God".

====Proper Noun====
'''Moor'''
# One of a mixed race inhabiting Morocco, Algeria, Tunis, and Tripoli, chiefly along the coast and in towns.
# (Hist.) Any individual of the swarthy races of Africa or Asia which have adopted the Mohammedan religion.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*{{nl}}: {{trad|nl|moren}}<!-- chg to sing. -->
*{{eo}}: {{trad|eo|Maŭroj}}
*{{et}}: {{trad|et|maur}}, {{trad|et|moorlane}}
*{{fr}}: {{trad|fr|Maure}} ''m''
*{{de}}: {{trad|de|Maure}} ''m''
{{mid}}
*{{pl}}: {{trad|pl|Maur}} ''m''
*{{ro}}: {{trad|ro|Maur}}
*{{ru}}: {{trad|ru|Мавры}} (Mavri)<!-- chg to sing. -->
*{{sl}}: {{trad|sl|Mavri}}<!-- chg to sing? -->
*{{es}}: {{trad|es|Moro}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[mor]], AS. [[mör]] [[moor]], [[morass]]; akin to D. [[moer]] [[moor]], G. [[moor]], and probably to Goth. [[marei sea]], E. [[mere]]. See [[Mere]] a lake.

====Noun====
'''moor'''
# An extensive waste covered with patches of heath, and having a poor, light soil, but sometimes marshy, and abounding in peat; a heath.
# A game preserve consisting of moorland.

=====Translations=====
*{{et}}: {{trad|et|raba}} (1)
*{{fr}}: {{trad|fr|marais}} ''m'', {{trad|fr|bruyère}} ''f''
*{{de}}: {{trad|de|Moor}} ''n'' (1)

===Etymology 3===
imp. & p. p. [[Moored]]; p. pr. & vb. n. [[Mooring]].<BR>
Prob. fr. D. [[marren]] to tie, fasten, or moor a ship. See [[Mar]].

====Verb====
'''to moor'''
#''(intransitive)'' To [[cast]] [[anchor]] or become [[fasten]]ed.
#''(transitive)'' (''Nautical'') To fix or secure, as a vessel, in a particular  place by casting anchor, or by fastening with cables or chains; as, ''the vessel was moored in the stream''; ''they  moored the boat to the wharf''.
#''(transitive)'' To [[secure]], or [[fix]] [[firm]]ly.

=====Translations=====
*{{et}}: {{trad|et|silduma}}, {{trad|et|otsi kinnitama}}
*{{fr}}: {{trad|fr|amarrer}}

==Estonian==
[[Category:Estonian language]]

===Noun===
'''moor'''
# [[grimalkin]]

==German==
[[Category:German language]]

===Noun===
'''[[:de:Moor|Moor]]''' ''n'' (1), plural '''Moore'''
# [[moor]] (2)

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[ang:Moor]]
[[de:Moor]]
[[fr:Moor]]
[[io:Moor]]
[[fi:Moor]]