==English==

===Noun===
'''[[moot]] [[point]]'''

# An [[issue]] that is subject to, or open for [[discussion]] or [[debate]].
#:''Now that downtown has been rebuilt and business is booming, whether to build more parking spaces has become a '''moot point'''.''
# An issue regarded as potentially debatable, but no longer practically applicable.  It is still may be worth debating and exploring academically.  The logic regarding the point may still apply to circumstances that are still currently practical.  Also, debaiting the point may still be very worthwhile in an acadamic context for purposes of developing ones skills at presenting a logical argument.
#: ''Until we rebuild downtown, whether we build more parking spaces or not is a '''moot point'''.''

Another example: A law regarding the specifications for wagon wheels on stage coaches that are used to transport money would now be moot since there are no stage coaches used to transport money anymore.  However, it may still be quite useful to debate the logic used in cases that relate to such stage coach wheels for purposes of developing one's legal skills and even to provide a logical approach to a more current issue.  Some of the logic found in a stage coach case may still be applicable to other types of cases, although not within the original context in which it was presented.

===Usage notes===
*The variant "mute point" appears to be based on a [[mondegreen]], and is widely considered incorrect.
*The second sense given above is regarded by some as incorrect.  For example, see [http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-moo1.htm this link].