<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="afd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]][[Template:Afd|.]]'''<br />
Please share your thoughts on the matter at '''[[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/{{PAGENAME}}|this article's entry]]''' on the Articles for Deletion page.<br />
You are welcome to edit this article, but please do not blank this article or remove this notice while the discussion is in progress. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to deletion|Guide to Deletion]].</div>
[[Category:Pages for deletion]]
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->

[[MOTOS]] /moh·tohs/, n. is an [[acronym]] or [[initialism]] used as a term to refer to "Member(s) of the Opposite Sex" or describe [[straight]] or [[heterosexual]] encounters or relationships.  Used in sexuality research and [[GLBT]] or [[LGBT]] publications.  For example, straight/heterosexual women or men who have opposite-sex partners and relationships, have had MOTOS experiences or only sexually prefer MOTOS.  The reverse, [[MOTSS]] refers to encounters with "Members of the Same Sex."  The designations were first used by famous sexual researcher [[Alfred Kinsey]] of the [[Kinsey Institute]] as well as [[Masters and Johnson]] and are currently used in [[sexology]] research polls and tests.  Acronym from the [[1970]] [[U.S. Census]] forms Member Of The Opposite Sex - A potential or (less often) actual sex partner.  A similar, less-often used term is the politically-incorrect [[MOTAS]] "Member of the Appropriate Sex]] and has since been replaced with [[SO]] which means [[Significant Other]].  Occasionally used as a colloquial term in [[GLBT]] community or casual talk as "motos" (pronounced like photos).  A recent joke in the GLBT community is greeting MOTOS with "Hello, Motos!" - a take on the recent popular "Hello, Moto!" ad campaign from [[Motorola]].