==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Noun===
'''mould''' (American English spelling: '''mold''')
# A [[hollow]] form or [[matrix]] for [[shaping]] a [[fluid]] or [[plastic]] [[substance]]. 
# A [[frame]] or [[model]] around or on which something is [[form]]ed or [[shape]]d. 
# Something that is made in or shaped on a mould. 
# The shape or pattern of a mould. 
# General shape or form.
#: ''the oval '''mould''' of her face''
# [[distinctive|Distinctive]] [[character]] or type.
#: ''a leader in the '''mould''' of her predecessors''
# A [[fixed]] or [[restrictive]] [[pattern]] or [[form]]
#:''His method of scientific investigation broke the '''mould''' and led to a new discovery. ''
# (''Architecture'') See [[moulding]].

====Etymology====
Via Middle English and Old French from Latin ''[[modulus]]''

====Translations====
*French: [[moulage]] (1)

===Noun===
'''mould''' (American English spelling: '''mold''')

# natural substance in the form of a woolly or furry growth of tiny fungi that appears when organic material lies for a long time exposed to (usually warm and moist) air

====Etymology====
Via Middle English from Old Norse ''[[mygla]]''
====Derived terms====
*[[mouldy]], [[moldy]]
====Translations====
*Croatian: [[plesan]]
*Esperanto: [[ŝimo]]
*French: [[moisi]]
*German: [[Schimmel]]
*Hungarian: [[penész]]
*Icelandic: [[mygla]]
*Italian: [[muffa]]
*Slovenian: [[plesen]]
*Spanish: [[moho]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[mögel]]
====See also====
*[[mildew]]

===Noun===
'''mould''' (American English spelling: '''mold''')

#loose [[friable]] [[soil]], rich in [[humus]] and fit for [[plant]]ing
====Etymology====
Old English ''molde''

====Synonyms====
'''loose soil'''
* [[leaf mould]]

====Translations====
*Latin [[humus#Latin|humus]]

===Verb===
'''mould''' (American English spelling: '''mold''')
# (''transitive'') To shape in or on a mould. 
# (''transitive'') To form into a particular shape; to give shape to. 
# (''transitive'') To [[guide]] or [[determine]] the [[growth]] or [[development]] of; [[influence]]; as, ''a teacher who helps to mould the minds of his students''
# (''transitive'') To [[fit]] closely by following the [[contours]] of. 
# (''transitive'') To make a mould of or from ([[molten]] [[metal]], for example) before [[cast]]ing. 
# (''transitive'') To [[ornament]] with mouldings.
# (''intransitive'') to be shaped in or as if in a mould
#:''These shoes gradually '''moulded''' to my feet.''

=====Translations=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[vorm geven]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[cs:mould]]
[[it:mould]]
[[zh:mould]]