==English==

{{rank|grave|serious|possession|954|move|foreign|native|members}}

===Etymology===
From {{OE.}} ''[[moven]]'', {{OF.}} ''[[moveir]]'', {{F.}} ''[[mouvoir]]'', {{L.}} ''[[movere|movēre]]]'' "to change, exchange, go in or out, quit".

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|mov|e|}}

# {{intransitive}} To [[change]] [[place]] or [[posture]]; to [[stir]]; to [[go]], in any manner, from one place or [[position]] to another; as, a ship moves rapidly.
# {{intransitive}} To [[act]]; to take [[action]]; to stir; to begin to act; as, to move in a matter.
# {{intransitive}} To change [[residence]]; to [[remove]], as from one house, town, or state, to another; to go and live at another place.
# {{intransitive}} {{chess}} To change the place of a [[piece]] in accordance with the [[rule]]s of the [[game]].
# {{transitive}} To cause to change place or posture in any manner; to set in [[motion]]; to [[carry]], [[convey]], [[draw]], or [[push]] from one place to another; to [[impel]]; to [[stir]]; as, the wind moves a vessel; the horse moves a carriage.
# {{transitive}} {{chess}} To [[transfer]] (a piece or man) from one [[space]] or position to another, according to the rules of the game; as, to move a king.
# {{transitive}} To [[excite]] to action by the presentation of [[motive]]s; to [[rouse]] by [[representation]], [[persuasion]], or [[appeal]]; to [[influence]].
# {{transitive}} To [[arouse]] the [[feeling]]s or [[passion]]s of; especially, to excite to [[tenderness]] or [[compassion]]; to [[touch]] [[pathetically]]; to excite, as an [[emotion]].
# {{transitive}} To [[propose]]; to [[recommend]]; specifically, to propose formally for [[consideration]] and [[determination]], in a [[deliberative]] [[assembly]]; to [[submit]], as a resolution to be adopted; as, to move to adjourn.
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To [[apply to]], as for [[aid]].

====Synonyms====
* [[actuate]]
* [[affect]]
* [[agitate]]
* [[impel]]
* [[incite]]
* [[incline]]
* [[induce]]
* [[influence]]
* [[instigate]]
* [[offer]]
* [[persuade]]
* [[prompt]]
* [[propose]]
* [[rouse]]
* [[stir]]
* [[trouble]]

====Translations====
'''to change place or posture; to go'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[moure's]]
*Dutch: [[bewegen]], [[zich verplaatsen]]
*Finnish: [[liikkua]], [[siirtyä]]
*French: [[se déplacer]]
*German: [[sich bewegen]]
*[[Ido]]: [[des-plas-izar]], [[movar]]
{{mid}}
*[[Old English]]: [[scriþan|scrīþan]]
*Spanish: [[moverse]]
{{bottom}}

'''to act; to take action'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to change residence'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[verhuizen]]
*Finnish: [[muuttaa]]
*French: [[déménager]]
*German: [[umziehen]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[mudar]]
{{bottom}}

'''to change the place of a piece'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to cause to change place or posture; to set in motion'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[verplaatsen]]
*Finnish: [[siirtää]]
*French: [[déplacer]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[bewegen]]
*Spanish: [[mover]]
{{bottom}}

'''to transfer from one space or position to another'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to excite to action'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to arouse the feelings or passions of'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to propose; to recommend'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to apply to'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Icelandic}}: [[flytja]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[diplasar]], [[movar]]
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: movēre

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# The act of moving; a movement.
# An act for the attainment of an object; a step in the execution of a plan or purpose.
# The event of changing one's residence.
# {{chess}} The act of moving a token on a gameboard from one position to another when it's one's [[turn]] to play.

====Derived terms====
* [[be on the move]]
* [[make a move]]

====Translations====
'''The act of moving a token on a gameboard'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[siirto]]
*[[w:French language|French]]: [[mouvement]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*[[w:Dutch language|Dutch]]: [[zet]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''The event of changing one's residence'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[muutto]]
*[[w:French language|French]]: [[déménagement]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*[[w:Dutch language|Dutch]]: [[verhuizing]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[תנועה|תְּנוּעָה]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[movo]]

===References===
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:move]]
[[io:move]]
[[it:move]]
[[la:move]]
[[hu:move]]
[[pt:move]]
[[fi:move]]
[[ta:move]]
[[uk:move]]
[[zh:move]]