==English==
===Etymology 1 ===
Cf. [[moke]], [[mook]]

===Noun===
'''muke''' ''(plural:'' '''[[mukes]]''')
# ''alternative spelling of'' '''[[mook]]'''

===Quotations===
* '''1995,''' David Rabe, ''Those the River Keeps'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0802133517&id=zJs2pCV0kD4C&pg=PA32&lpg=PA32&dq=muke&sig=2E7pkTLvarxol5BNZ63Sbxfh9kg]
*: Look, I says to myself, Phil is out there trying to live this fucking life of a '''muke''', he has got to be sick of it, but he is not a '''muke''', he is a serious guy.

===Etymology 2===
Chinese, perhaps [[木客]] (''mùkè'', ‘tree-lodger’).

===Noun===
'''muke''' ''(plural:'' [[muke]])
# ''Chinese mythology'' A kind of tree spirit.

===Quotations===
* '''2004,''' Richard von Glahn, ''The Sinister Way'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0520234081&id=Qyz5I7fi4PQC&pg=PA92&lpg=PA93&printsec=8&dq=muke&sig=JY79_rk9YR_usCiystUTxqVr9RQ]
*: According to the fifth-century ''Gazette of Nankang,'' the '''''muke'''/shanzao'' likewise resembled humans in form and speech, but instead of hands and feet they had birdlike talons and nested in high trees. The tree-dwelling ''shandu'' and '''''muke''''' both seem to have some affinity with a changeling bird known as ''ye,'' which nested in the high trees of the remote mountains of southern China.

==Bosnian==
===Noun===
'''muke'''
# ''plural of'' '''[[muka]]''' ‘torment’
# ''genitive singular of'' '''[[muka]]''' ‘torment’

==Chimwiini Swahili==
===Noun===
'''muke'''
# [[woman|Woman]].

==Chinese==
===Alternative spellings===
* [[mùkè]]

===Noun===
'''muke''' 
# ''transliteration of'' '''[[木刻]]''' ‘woodcut’

==Croatian==
===Noun===
'''muke'''
# ''plural of'' '''[[muka]]''' ‘torment’.
# ''genitive singular of'' '''[[muka]]''' ‘torment’

==East Futuna==
===Verb===
'''muke'''
# To set a goal.

===Noun===
'''muke'''
# A fixed goal.

===References===
* ''Dictionnaire futunien-français,'' Claire Moyse-Faurie [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN2877230708&id=N8S-8MP31soC&pg=PA291&lpg=PA291&dq=muke&sig=Tv8dn9D5dm2awGfhc4Ihlz88Z3A]

==Manchu==
===Noun===
'''muke'''
# ''transliteration of'' '''[[ᠮᠤᠺᠡ]]''' ‘water’

==Middle English==
===Adjective===
'''muke'''
# ''alternative spelling of'' '''[[mek]]''' ‘meek’

===Noun===
'''muke'''
# ''alternative spelling of'' '''[[muk]]''' ‘muck’

===Quotations===
* '''15th c.''' [[w:Robert Henryson|Robert Henryson]], ''The Cock and the Jasp'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0862418208&id=kOoJ0j65n1YC&pg=PA17&lpg=PA17&dq=muke&sig=9vnHskwc6W9l2RtJxvZNGSG-T4w]
*: Pietie it wer thow suld ly in this mydding,
*: Be buryit thus amang this '''muke''' and mold,
*: And thow so fair and warth sa mekill gold.

==Nage==
===Noun===
'''muke'''
# ''Chalcophaps indica,'' the Emerald Dove.

===References===
* ''Nage Birds,'' Gregory L. Forth ISBN 0415318270

[[Category:nxe:Birds]]

[[nl:muke]]
[[pt:muke]]