==English==
===Etymology===
Old English [[morþor]], influenced in Middle English by Old French [[murdre]] (French [[meurtre]]), itself from Germanic.

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /'mə:də/

=== Noun ===
'''murder''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]''; ''plural'' '''murders''')

# (''[[countable]]'') An act of deliberate killing.
#: ''There have been ten unsolved murders this year alone.''
# (''[[law]]''; ''[[uncountable]]'') The crime of deliberate killing.
#: ''The defendant was charged with murder.''
# (''[[countable]]'') A fanciful name for a group of [[crow]]s.

====Translations====
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*'''Albanian''': [[gjakësi]]
*'''Arabic''': [[القتل]]
*'''Azerbaijani''': [[qatillik]]
*'''Bulgarian''': [[убийство]] ''(ubijstvo)''
*'''Chinese''': [[谋杀]]
*'''Croatian''': [[ubojstvo]]
*'''Czech''': [[vražda]]
*'''Danish''': [[mord]]
*'''Dutch''': [[moord]]
*'''Esperanto''': [[murdo]]
*'''Estonian''': [[mõrv]]
*'''Finnish''': [[murha]] (1,2)
*'''French''': [[meurtre]]
*'''Georgian''': [[მკვლელობა]] ''(mkvleloba)''
*'''German''': [[Mord]]
*'''Greek''': [[δολοφονία]] ''(dolophonía)''
*'''Hebrew''': [[רצח]]
*'''Hungarian''': [[gyilkosság]]
*'''Indonesian''': [[membunuh]]
*'''Italian''': [[assassinio]] ''m'', [[omicidio ]] ''m'', [[delitto]] ''m''
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*'''Japanese''': [[殺人]] ([[さつじん]]) ''(satsujin)''
*'''Korean''': [[살인]] ''(salin)''
*'''Latvian''': [[slepkavība]]
*'''Lithuanian''': [[žmogžudystė]]
*'''Norwegian''': [[mord]]
*'''Persian''': [[ادمكشى]]
*'''Polish''': [[morderstwo]]
*'''Portuguese''': [[assassinato]]
*'''Romanian''': [[asasinat]]
*'''Russian''': [[убийство]] ''(ubijstvo)''
*'''Serbian''': [[убиство]] ''(ubistvo)''
*'''Slovak''': [[vražda]]
*'''Slovene''': [[umor]] ''m''
*'''Spanish''': [[asesinato]]
*'''Swahili''': [[mauaji]]
*'''Swedish''': [[mord]]
*'''Turkish''': [[adem öldürme]]
*'''Uyghur''': [[adem ötlürgen]]
*'''Vietnamese''': [[tội giết người]]
*'''Welsh''': [[galanas]]
*'''Yiddish''': [[mord]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''murder''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#Of or relating to murder or a murder.
#:''murder victim''
#:''murder case''
#Terrible to endure.
#: ''This headache is murder.''

====Translations====

'''of or relating to murder or a murder'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[moord]] ''f'', [[moordend]]
*German: [[Mord-]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[mord-]]
|}
|}

'''terrible to endure'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

=== Transitive verb ===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|murder||}}
# To deliberately kill (a person or persons).
# (''[[sports]]''; ''figurative colloquial'') To defeat decisively.
#: ''Our team is going to murder them.''
# (''figurative, colloquial'') To express one's anger at.
#: ''He's torn my best shirt.  When I see him, I'll murder him!''

====Synonyms====
*(''deliberately kill''): [[assassinate]], [[exterminate]], [[kill]], [[massacre]], [[slaughter]], [[homicide]]
*(''defeat decisively''): [[thrash]], [[trounce]], [[wipe the floor with]]
*(''express one's anger at''): [[kill]]

====Translations====
'''deliberately kill'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[moorden]]
*Finnish: [[murhata]]
*German: [[ermorden]]
*Hebrew: [[לרצוח]]
*Italian: [[assassinare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Latin: [[assassinare]]
*{{sk}}: [[vraždiť]], [[zavraždiť]]
*Slovene: [[umoriti]]
*{{es}}: [[asesinar]]
*Swedish: [[mörda]]
|}
|}

'''defeat decisively'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[de grond in boren]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''express one's anger at'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*German: [[umbringen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[döda]]
|}
|}

===Derivatives===
*[[first-degree murder]]
*[[murderer]]
*[[murderess]]
*[[murder in the first degree]]
*[[murder in the second degree]]
*[[second-degree murder]]
*[[cry blue murder]]
*[[manslaughter]]



[[Category:English collective nouns]]
[[ang:Murder]]
[[fr:murder]]
[[it:murder]]
[[hu:Murder]]
[[ru:Murder]]
[[fi:murder]]