{{DiseaseDisorder infobox |
  Name           = Myxoma |
  ICD10          = {{ICD10|D|15|1|d|10}} |
  ICD9           = {{ICD9|212.7}} |
  ICDO           = 8840/0 |
  Image          = |
  Caption        = |
  OMIM           = 255960 |
  OMIM_mult      = |
  MedlinePlus    = |
  eMedicineSubj  = med |
  eMedicineTopic = 186 |
  DiseasesDB     = 30736 |
}}
A '''myxoma''' (''Myxo-'' = Latin for [[mucus]]) is the most common primary [[tumor]] of the [[heart]].  Myxomas are usually located in either the [[left atrium|left]] or [[right atrium]] of the heart; about 86 percent occur in the [[left atrium]].<ref>Knepper LE, Biller J, Adams HP Jr, Bruno A. Neurologic manifestations of atrial myxoma. A 12-year experience and review. Stroke. 1988 Nov;19(11):1435-40. ([http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=pubmed&dopt=Abstract&list_uids=3188128 Medline abstract])</ref>

Myxomas are typically [[peduncle (anatomy)|pedunculate]]d, with a stalk that is attached to the [[interatrial septum]].  The most common location for attachment of the stalk is the [[fossa ovalis]] region of the interatrial septum.

The phrase "myxomatous degeneration" refers to the process in which [[connective tissue]] becomes filled with [[mucus]]. However, the word "myxoma" is rarely used outside of the context of the [[cardiac skeleton]].

== Diagnosis ==
It is most seen on [[echocardiography]], as a pedunculated mass that is heterogeneous in appearance.

The [[differential diagnosis]] include other cardiac tumors such as [[lipoma]]s and [[rhabdomyoma]]s.  These other tumors of the heart are typically not pedunculated, however, and are more likely to infiltrate the muscle of the heart. Cardiac Magnetic resonance Imaging can help non-invasively diagnose cardiac tumors.

== Symptoms ==
Symptoms associated with cardiac myxomas are typically due to the effect of the mass of the tumor obstructing the normal flow of blood within the chambers of the heart.

Some symptoms of myxoma may be associated with the release of [[interleukin 6]] (IL-6) by the myxoma.  High levels of IL-6 may be associated with a higher risk of embolism of the myxoma.<ref name="Wada-IL6">{{cite journal | author=Wada A, Kanda t, Hayashi R, et al. | title=Cardiac myxoma metastasized to the brain: potential role of endogenous interleukin-6 | Journal=Cardiology | year=1993 | volume=83 | issue=3 | pages=208-11 | PMID=8281536}}</ref>

Symptoms of a cardiac myxoma include<ref name="Fisher-Cardiacmyxoma">{{cite journal | author=Fisher J. | title=Cardiac myxoma. | journal=Cardiovasc Rev Rep | year=1983 | issue=4 | pages=1195-9}}</ref>:
* Dyspnea on exertion
* Paroxysmal dyspnea
* Fever
* Weight loss
* Lightheadedness or [[syncope]] (Loss of consciousness)
* Hemoptysis
* Sudden death

== See also ==
* [[Myxomatosis]]

==References==
<references/>

== External links ==
* {{MedlinePlusEncylopedia|000196}} &ndash; left atrium
* {{MedlinePlusEncylopedia|000197}} &ndash; right atrium
* {{GPnotebook|-435814399}}
* {{MerckHome|03|031|b}}
* [http://www.histopathology-india.net/CaMyx.htm Pathology of Cardiac Myxoma]



[[Category:Cardiology]]

{{circulatory-stub}}

[[de:Myxom]]
[[pl:Śluzak]]
[[sv:Myxom]]