{{see|mor}}

==Irish==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[moːr]}}

===Adjective===
'''mór'''
#[[big]], [[large]], [[great]]

===Declension===
First declension; forms of the [[positive]] degree:
{|{{prettytable100}}
!Case
!Masculine singular
!Feminine singular
!Plural
|-
| [[Nominative]]
| '''mór'''
| '''mór'''
| [[móra]]
|-
| [[Vocative]]
| [[móir]]
| '''mór'''
| [[móra]]
|-
| [[Genitive]]
| [[móir]]
| [[móire]]
| '''mór'''
|-
| [[Dative]]
| '''mór'''
| '''mór'''<br>''archaic'' [[móir]]
| [[móra]]
|}
[[Comparative]]/[[superlative]]: [[mó]]

----
==Scottish Gaelic==
===Adjective===
'''mór'''
#[[big]], [[large]], of great size
#[[great]], [[many]], of great number
#* duine mór
#** a great man
#* sluagh mór
#** multitude
#* Tha iad mór aig a chéile.
#** They are great chums.
#great in extent, [[extensive]]
#[[important]]
#* ni mór
#** an important affair
#* cho mór as féin ris a' mhac-mhollachd
#** as self-important as Lucifer
#[[chief]], [[principal]]
#[[noble]], of high rank
#[[tall]], of high structure
#[[proud]]
#[[lofty]]
#[[familiar]], much acquainted
#* Tha iad cho mór aig a chéile 's is urrainn iad.
#** They are as familiar as possible.
#[[valued]], [[esteemed]]
#* Bu mhór aca fhéin e.
#** It was much valued by themselves.
#[[hard]], difficult to accomplish
#* Tha e mór ort a dheanamh.
#** It is hard for thee to do it.
#[[spacious]], [[capacious]]
#[[much]], in great degree
#* Is mór leam sin a dhèanadh.
#** I think it too much to go to that length.
#* is mór a dh' fhuiling mi
#** greatly did I suffer!
#[[abundant]], [[copious]]
#[[mighty]], [[powerful]]
#* Thachair a bhràthair mór ris.
#** He has met one stronger than himself.
#[[haughty]]
#[[heavy]]
#[[wide]]
#[[corpulent]], [[bulky]]
#[[vivid]], of lightening
#* Bha 'n dealan mór.
#** The lightening was vivid.
#notorious for evil qualities, or such as is not to one's credit
#* gille mór mhic Eòghain.
#** the notorious son of Hugh

==Noun==
'''mór''' (poetic)
# the great, the mighty, the chivalrous, the renowned, the famous
#* Cò tha coltach ri mór nan cliù?
#** Who is like the mighty of renown?

===References===         
* ''The Illustrated Gaelic-English Dictionary'' (Birlinn Limited, 1901-1911, Compiled by Edward Dwelly)
* ''A Pronouncing and Etymological Dictionary of the Gaelic Language'' (John Grant, Edinburgh, 1925, Complied by Malcolm MacLennan)

----
==[[Sindarin]]==

===Adjective===
'''mór'''
#[[black]], [[dark]]

===Noun===
'''mór'''
#[[darkness]]

[[Category:Irish adjectives]]
[[Category:Scots Gaelic adjectives]]

[[fr:mór]]
[[ku:mór]]