''This entry needs to be changed into the format of the template: [[Wiktionary:Entries on Chinese characters]].''

----

*'''Writing''' (''it is necessary for full identification/recognition'')
**Written looks like <br> http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/gifs/200x200/3169.gif
**You can see ''how to write'' it [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/movies/3169.mov here] ''(need *.mov file player)''.
**You can also ''try to write'' it yourself [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/data/3169.html here]. ''(need Java support)''
**水 alternatively is written as [[氵]] (for example, in characters [[漢]], .. on the left of the characters).
**水 cannot be broken down (analysed) to [[Chinese_radical|radicals]] because it is a radical ''(number 85)'' itself, however it can be broken down to strokes. It has 3 distinct [[strokes]] (look the [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/movies/3169.mov movie]). However, it is considered to be 4 stokes character (look '''''Technical and other info''''').

*'''Stroke Number''': 4

*'''Common Meaning''':
**[[Water]]

----

== Chinese [[Hanzi]] ==

*'''Technical and other info''':
**水 radical number is 85. (水 is 85th radical itself and frequently combines with other characters as [[氵]].)

----

== Japanese [[Kanji]] ==

水 means [[Water]] ''(for detailed description, look at the '''Meaning''' section)''. 水 is written as shown in '''''Writing''''' section below. 水's onyomi, kunyomi and/or other readings are in '''''Reading''''' section. 水's technical information is in the '''''Technical and other info''''' section.


*'''Meaning''' ''(Meanings in compounds and the compounds analysed in detail including pronunciation)''
**水 (mi.zu) means [[water]] (noun). Note that the [[kunyomi]] reading みず (mizu) is used in its pronunciation. You can [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/data/sound/mizu.au hear] it pronounced. ''(need *.au file player)''
**水[[曜日]] (su.i,yo.u,bi) means [[Wednesday]] - literally, "Water's week-day". Note that the [[onyomi]] reading スイ (sui) is used in its pronunciation. You can [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/data/sound/suiyoubi.au hear] it pronounced. ''(need *.au file player)''
**水死 (su.i,shi) means [[drowning]] - literally, "water-death".
**水俣病 (mi.na,ma.ta,byo.u) means Minamata disease (disease, caused by the Mercury-poisend water)
**''please [http://wiktionary.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=%E6%B0%B4&action=edit add] to this list''


*'''Readings'''
**'''[[On]]''': [[スイ]] (su.i)
**'''[[Kun]]''': [[みず]] (mi.zu)
***You can [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/data/sound/mizu.au hear] みず pronounced. ''(need *.au file player)''
**'''[[Nanori]]''': [[うず]] (u.zu), [[ずみ]] (zu.mi), [[つ]] (tsu), [[ど]] (do), [[み]] (mi), [[みさ]] (mi.sa), [[みつ]] (mi.tsu), [[みな]] (mi.na), [[みん]] (min)

----

== Korean [[Hanja]] ==