==English==

===Etymology===
Uncertain:
*Collins suggests a possible 19th century origin from [[back slang]] of ''fan'', [[fanny]].
*AHD suggests a possible dialectal origin but goes no further.
*Wiktionary contributors suggest it is derived from the [[Polari]] word ''[[naph]]'', and <!--no doubt was -->popularised and hence changed its spelling due to being used on the BBC radio programme <i>Round the Horne</i> by Julian and Sandy in the 1960s.
*OED has no evidence before 1966 and mentions the Polari theory and others without going so far as to accept any of them without further evidence.
*Cassell's Dictionary of Slang refers to it being confused. Its etymology is confused with '''N'''ot '''A'''vailable '''F'''or '''F'''ucking in gay speak (not Polari), an unavailible man. However it is unlikely the word held both these meanings at once by the same group of people. 
*The BBC show Balderdash and Piffle disagrees with Cassell's. 
*Encarta merely state the etymology is unknown.
*Merriam-Webster and Etymology Online offer no information.
[[Category:Unknown etymology]]

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æf|-æf]]

===Adjective===
'''naff''' (''[[comparative]]'' '''naffer''', ''[[superlative]]'' '''naffest''')

#(''British slang'') Considered to be poor taste.
#:''That tie with Homer Simpson on it is a bit naff, don't you think?''

====Derived terms====
*[[naff all]]
*[[naff off]] -here it is used as a euphemism for fuck.

===See also===
*BBC [[Wordhunt]]

[[fi:naff]]
[[vi:naff]]