==English==

{{rank|possession|move|foreign|956|native|members|fortune|glass}}

===Etymology===
From Latin [[natus]], birth.

===Adjective===
'''native'''
# characteristic of or existing by virtue of geographic origin; "the native North American sugar maple"; "many native artists studied abroad"
# belonging to one by birth; "my native land"; "one's native language"
# characteristic of or relating to people inhabiting a region from the beginning; "native Americans"; "the aboriginal peoples of Australia"
# a person who was born in a particular place; an indigenous person
====Translations====
*Spanish: [[nativo]], [[oriundo]]

===Noun===
'''native'''  (''plural:'' '''[[natives]]''')
# A person who is native to a place (literal or metaphoric)
#:''She is a regular Wiki* '''native'''.''
#:''I need a volunteer '''native''' New Yorker for my next joke...''
#(South African: dated and offensive) A black South African.
#:"One farmer met a wandering '''native''' family in the town of Bloemhof a week before our visit. He was willing to employ the '''Native''' and many more homeless families as follows: A monthly wage of 2 Pounds 10s. for each such family, the husband working in the fields, the wife in the house, with an additional 10s. a month for each son, and 5s. for each daughter, but on condition that the '''Native's''' cattle were also handed over to work for him. It must be clearly understood, we are told that the Dutchman added, that occasionally the '''Native''' would have to leave his family at work on the farm, and go out with his wagon and his oxen to earn money whenever and wherever he was told to go, in order that the master may be enabled to pay the stipulated wage." (the effects of the Native Land Act of 1913).
'':Native Life in South Africa by Solomon Tshekisho Plaatje Chapter IV One Night with the Fugitives Publisher: The World Wide SchoolTM Publication Date: July 1999 Published from: Seattle, Washington, USA''

===See also===
*[[nativity]]

[[fr:native]]
[[it:native]]
[[hu:native]]
[[pl:native]]
[[ru:native]]
[[fi:native]]