''See also [[Ne]], [[né]]''

----

==Bosnian==
===Adverb===
'''ne'''
#[[not]], [[no]]
[[Category:bs:Adverbs]]

----

==Croatian==
===Adverb===
'''ne'''
#[[not]], [[no]]
[[Category:hr:Adverbs]]

----

==Czech==
===Negative particle===
#[[not]]

----

==Esperanto==
===Particle===
'''ne'''
# [[no]]
# [[not]]
[[Category:Esperanto particles]]
[[Category:Esperanto BRO1]]

----

==Finnish==
===Pronoun===
'''ne''' (''stem'' '''nii-''')
# (''of things and animals'') [[they]] 
# (''of everything'') [[they]] (''colloquial or dialectal'')
# (''demonstrative'') [[the]] (''translation varies'')
===Usage notes===
The case suffixes are regular and the stem invariant.
===Related terms===
*[[niin#Finnish|niin]]
===See also===
*[[he#Finnish|he]]
*[[nuo#Finnish|nuo]]
*[[nämä#Finnish|nämä]]
*[[se#Finnish|se]]
*[[tämä#Finnish|tämä]]
*[[tuo#Finnish|tuo]]
[[Category:Finnish pronouns]]

----

==French==
===Particle===
'''ne'''
#''used to precede a verb followed by a negative word to form negatives''; [[not]], [[no]]
#:''Je ne sais pas'' &mdash; I do not know.
#:''Je ne sais rien'' &mdash; I know nothing.
#:''Je ne sais jamais'' &mdash; I never know.
#''used in a subordinate clause preceding a subjunctive verb, following a main verb which expresses doubt or fear, and not translated into English.''
#:''Pour autant que je ne sache il est toujours là'' &mdash; As far as I know he is still there.
<!--There is also another sense, as in "le gâteau le plus grand que je n'ai jamais vu" ("the biggest cake that I have ever seen") in which "jamais" is positive ("ever") rather than negative ("never") - meaning that the "ne" does not denote a negative - and is not translated into English - could someone provide this sense, please?-->
===See also===
*[[guère]]
*[[jamais]]
*[[pas#French|pas]]
*[[personne]]
*[[plus#French|plus]]
*[[point#French|point]]
*[[que#French|que]].  
*[[rien]]

----

==German==
===Interjunction===
'''ne?'''
#(''colloquial'') "no?" or "is it not?"
#:''Großartig, ne?'' &mdash; Great, isn’t it?
===Article===
''''ne'''
#(''colloquial'') shorthand of the female article "''eine''" &mdash; "an" or "a"
#:''Möchtest du ’ne Flasche Bier?'' &mdash; Would you like a bottle of beer?

----

==Hungarian==

===Adverb===
'''ne'''

#[[do not]]

[[Category:Hungarian adverbs]]

----

==Ido==
===Adverb===
'''ne'''
# [[not]]

----

==Italian==
===Adverb===
'''ne'''
#from [[there]]
#:''Ne sono venuto'' &mdash; I have come from there
====Usage notes====
*The pronoun '''ne''' replaces "di là".
*:''Sono di Genova; ne sono venuto stamattina'' &mdash; I am from Genova; I came from there this morning.
===Pronoun===
'''ne'''
#of it
#:''Ne ho sentito parlare'' &mdash; I have heard of it
#:''Cosa ne pensi?'' &mdash; What do you think of it?
#of them (''sometimes not translated in English'')
#:''C’è ne sono due'' &mdash; There are two (of them)
#''see usage notes''
====Usage notes====
*The pronoun '''ne''' stands for "di" + ''pronoun'', and so can be a translation of ''preposition'' + "it/them" for any preposition that is translated as "di" in Italian.
===See also===
*[[né#Italian|né]]
[[Category:Italian adverbs]]
[[Category:Italian pronouns]]

----

==Latin==
===Particle===
'''-ne'''
#Question particle. Transforms the sentence into a question (in absence of a question mark).
#:''Agricolas habetisne?'' &mdash; You ({{p}}) have got peasants?
===Conjunction===
'''n&#275;''' + ''subjunctive''
# in order not to; lest
====Correlative expression====
'''n&#275; ... [[quidem]]''' not even
===Adverb===
'''ne'''
# ''(after ''[[dummodo]]'')'' [[not]]
[[Category:Latin conjunctions]]
[[Category:Latin adverbs]]

----

==Lithuanian==

=== Adverb ===
'''ne'''

#[[not]]

[[Category:Lithuanian language]]

----

==Serbian==
===Adverb===
'''ne'''
#[[not]], [[no]]
====Cyrillic spelling====
*[[не#Serbian|не]]
[[Category:sr:Adverbs]]

----

==Turkish==
===Adverb===
'''ne'''

# [[what]]

[[Category:Turkish adverbs]]

----

==Yup'ik==
===Noun===
'''ne''', ena ([[absolutive case]])
#[[house]]
[[Category:Yup'ik language]]

[[et:ne]]
[[fr:ne]]
[[gl:ne]]
[[ko:ne]]
[[hr:ne]]
[[io:ne]]
[[it:ne]]
[[ku:ne]]
[[la:ne]]
[[ja:ne]]
[[no:ne]]
[[pl:ne]]
[[pt:ne]]
[[fi:ne]]
[[zh:ne]]