==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# A word or phrase which has recently been coined; a new word or phrase. 
# {{uncountable}} The act or instance of coining, or uttering a new word.
# A psychopath's meaningless word or phrase.

====Synonyms====
* [[coinage]]

====Antonyms====
* [[paleologism]]

====Translations====
'''recently coined word'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: 
*:Simplified Chinese: [[新词]]
*:Traditional Chinese: [[新詞]]
*:Pinyin: xinci
*Dutch: [[neologisme]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[uudismuodoste]]
*French: [[néologisme]] {{m}}
*German: [[Neologismus]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[νεολογισμός]]
*:Roman: neologismós
*Italian: [[neologismo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: 
*:Kanji: [[新語]]
*:Hiragana: しんご
*:Romaji: shingo
*Korean: 
*:hangul: [[신어]]
*:romaja: sineo
*Latin: [[neologismus]] {{m}}
*Russian: 
*:Cyrillic: [[неологизм]]
*:Roman: neologizm
*Spanish: [[neologismo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''instance of coinage'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''psychopath meaningless word'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
* [[diffused neologism]]
* [[protologism]]
* [[stable neologism]]
* [[vogue word]]s
* [[Wiktionary:Neologisms]]

===Usage notes===
For a word to no longer be considered new, it needs to be understood by a significant portion of the population, as having always been a valid word.  For that to occur, the word must have been in common use for approximately one generation; fifteen to twenty years.  No exact measure of how long a word needs to be part of the language to no longer be considered "new" is universally accepted.

===External links===
* [http://rdues.uce.ac.uk/neologisms.shtml Neologisms in Journalistic Text]

===References===
*''The Oxford Dictionary of American Usage and Style.''  Bryan A. Garner. Oxford University Press, 2000. Oxford Reference Online. Oxford University Press.  21 June 2006
*''The American Heritage® Stedman's Medical Dictionary'' Copyright © 2002, 2001, 1995 by Houghton Mifflin Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company.

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[io:neologism]]
[[fi:neologism]]
[[vi:neologism]]
[[zh:neologism]]