== Definition of Neologisms==

Neologism (from Greek neo, new + Greek logos, word) -  a new word or a new meaning for a new word; the use of, or practice of creating, new words or new meanings.

Neologisms are divided into (1) stable, or duffused, i.e.  accepted  by several authors and used  in publications; (2) unstable, freshly coined neologisms, or protologisms. the second category is discussed rarely. This article focuses on unstable neologisms.

== Definition of Unstable Neologisms, or Protologisms ==

Unstable neologisms are words which are being proposed by individuals or are being used in a very small subculture.

For example, since there seems to be no other word yet existing for a newly created word which has not yet gained any real acceptance, we might coin the word [[protologism]] to mean just that! (Maybe that should be the title of t his page?)

Protologism [Greek protos, first + Greek logos, word; cf. prototype, neologism] is a newly created word which has not yet gained any wide acceptance. It is a prototype or a hypothetical projection of a new lexical unit before it may become current in writ ing or speech.  The word "protologism" proposed here and now is itself an example of a protologism. 

In contrast to protologisms, neologisms are words that have already been in public usage by  authors other than their inventors. As soon as a protologism finds its way into newspapers and websites, journals and books, it becomes a neologism.

A commercial venture related to such 'words that should be words' and which popularized them were the books called "Sniglets" (by Rich Hall and Friends). Some have u sed this ter m to popularize [http://www.google.com/search?q=sniglets&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8 their own 'should-be' words]. (However, these seem to have been generally confined to purposes of humor--though this may itself necessitate a separate categorization o f pages within protologisms.)

== Answering Potential Criticism of the Inclusion of Protologism Listings ==

Although some may have concern that allowing a forum for Protologisms here is a vain endeavor since it might be expected that well-deserving words would have already caught on by the public without such a forum, it should also be evident that having a platform on which one can try out new words (and have the words seen by those interested in the topic or in new words in general) make s it much more likely that the words have a chance of catching on.

Although any one can (and many people do) coin new words which eventually gain acceptance, such acceptance does not only depend on the quality of the word, but also on the number of peopl e who will have an opportunity to hear the word, particularly those who are in a position to use the word.

For example, if I coined a word to express a technical physics concept, it is unlikely that the word would catch on unless the word could be voiced in a forum tho se interested in or knowledgeable about physics might frequent.  True, there already are forums such as scholarly articles or email lists where this kind of discussion takes place, but the interactive and fully editable nature of Wiktionar y makes opportun ities for accessibility and refinement (without distracting side-discussions consuming the view of the new idea) much greater.  Also, those with only a peripheral interest in the topic--yet with some insight--could make contributions to t he process by bei ng able to easily navigate a structured definition/categorization.

== Criteria for Inclusion: ==

Unstable neologisms, or protologisms which people wish to list at [[Wiktionary]] should meet an expressive need, follow some logic in thei r etymology, follo w standards of spelling, intonation, and pronunciation in the language or dialect, and should be ideall y "catchy" enough to have a chance of gaining wider acceptance.

Although prudence should be used in not adding too freely to this l ist and heeding the above conventions, the listing of Unstable Neologisms at this page should afford everyone the opportunity to see words they have wanted to use to express a concept or logical device come into existence (and possibly more widespread use) and be shared amo ng those interested in general in new word ideas or those wishing to only monitor on their "watchlist" changes to neologisms for a certain topic in which they are interested.

All Neologisms (particularly unstable ones), if assigned th eir own page, should be labeled as such next to the definition (especially for those coming across the page without knowing it is a new neologism).

When adding links to neologisms on topic or subtopic categorization pages, they should only be added if the words are distinct ly labeled as neologisms on the topic page (and possibly dumped into a separate list to which the categorization page was linked so as not to clutter the view from these categorization pages of already stable and well-accepted words).  For example, when s omeone is viewing all of the economics words by topic, some may not wish to be distracted (or confused) by seeing words which have only been proposed, and have not yet come to any widespread acceptance, so a link could be made within the economics topic s ection to "economics neologisms/protologisms".

== Assistance in Coining New Terms ==

For aid in coining new terms (besides posting one's questions or comments on a new or preexisting Talk page), one should probably first look at the [[By Topic]] page (or another "Word Men u") or in a [[Thesa urus]] to find other terms in the same genre.

Knowledge of foreign languages might also be helpful in illuminating what is possible in words as far as what concepts might be grouped together.  Such knowledge could also illuminate expressive gaps in one's language and possibly contribute to aiding the work of translators who would otherwise have to choose an inadequate term to express the original idea. (Along these lines, the word's proposer could cross-reference t he proposed neologism as a suggested exact translation for the foreign word on the foreign word's definition page (as long as it was clear that the alternative was not currently in widespread use)).  Despite these possibilities for considering foreign lan guages, there is no reason that neo-neologisms would need to already be in existence in any language (though one could perhaps make clear at their neo-neologism page that the word was in fact in existence in specific other languag e(s)).

To devise the act ual form of the word once a concept was decided upon, one could consult an alphbetical, by topic, or other category of list of [[affixes]] and [[roots]].

== The Consultation Process for Neo-neologisims ==

To take our example of coining the new word "pro tologism", someone who thought [[neoneologism]] (i.e. new neologism) or [[nowism]] (i.e., "now-ism") would be more ideal or catchy (or as an additional synonym perhaps) could make such a suggestion in the corresponding Talk/Disc uss page of the new word pa ge just started.

Competing protologisms (or neoneologisms, or nowisms) could coexist if resolution on the matter could not be found by those discussing the merits of the word choice and form.  (Competition between terms happens regularly in linguistic ch ange, leading sometimes to full acceptance of both terms (see [[Neologisms:stable]]), but the tendency is also for coexisting terms to eventually develop nuanced distinctions of meaning.)

Also, this system would enable those who have mistakenly thought t hat a word DID NOT exist to express their concept to be informed by others monitoring the topic who knew of an already existing suitable word.

== Using Your or Others' Protologisms ==

Although you may need to go out on a li mb to risk using your (or othe rs') new words, it might be kept in mind that that is always the case when we use new slang or jargon and our audience may not have heard the word before.  Also, the [[By Topic]] and other category browsing and searching opt ions of [[Wiktionary]] (perhaps we could categorize the words on this page itself by topic as well as the list expands) make it more feasible that Wiktionary could develop into a central place where people come to ascertain the meanings of unfamiliar terms they have just come across (you could even conceivably make links from your website which uses the new term to the Wiktionary page of your word).

== Topical List of Protologisms (unstable neologisms) for English ==

(If expanded, the following might be cross-referenced in alphabetical order and by topic)

Here is a list of proposed or (at least presently) narrowly diffused neologisms (newly invente d yet not accepted words or phrases) for English (with a very short description to save time for those wishing to just get a bird's eye glimpse of their intended meanings). Feel free to add additional suggested words for others to consider (see instructi o ns below on adding new words).  Humorous additions can be added if they do fill an expressive gap; they can be identified with italics.

=== Material terms ===
==== Computer terms ====
* [[wikiholic]] - someone who spends a lot of time browsing and/or con tributing to wiki sites
*  [[wikiphilia]] - love of wiki sites.

=== Linguistically defined ===
==== Grammar Words (pronouns, conjunctions) ====

*[[hu]] - a clipping from "human," a 3rd person gender-neutral pronoun, relates both to a man and a woman. It is pronounced [hju:] like "hu" in "human." Its brevity and morphological structure (one open syllable: a consonant + a vowel) make it similar to other 3rd person pronouns. A typical, 
easily recognizable member of this class: '''he, she, hu'''. The derivative forms of "hu": reflexive 
"huself," {h ju:self}, possessive "hus" {hju:z}, and objective "hu" {hju:}. 

**Examples: It's the vice-president's job to support the president and take hus place when hu is away. A hero is one who places huself at ri sk f or another. An employee may choose to cover only huself and hus child or any number of children.

* [[ayor]] - "or" where the item preceding the word is implied if the word following it were chosen (e.g., "I want it to be the shape of a rectangle ayo r a square").

=== Social terms ===
*videocracy (video + cracy, power) - the power of visual images in shaping contemporary societies; the crucial impact of television, cinema, internet, and advertising on public opinion, political affairs, market strateg ies, etc.

==== Family terms ====

* [[cousina]] - a female cousin
* [[cousino]] - a male cousin
* [[aunto]] - paternal aunt (the following by blood only?)
* [[aunta]] - maternal aunt
* [[unclo]] - paternal uncle

==== National, Cultural, etc. ====
*[[nat ionis t]] - Someone who has prejudices towards or practices discrimination against those of other nations or national origins. (unlike "nationalist", "nationist" always has a negative connotation) (adj. nationistic)

==== Words relating to Meetings ====
*[[meet nik]] n (meet  + suffix nik)  a person who enjoys meetings and all sorts of administrative events and tries to attend as many of them as possible.
:Being socially active is one thing, meeting for the sake of meeting is another.  I try to stay away from me etniks for whom getting together is an end in itself.
*[[evEntify]] v (event + suffix ify )  to fill with events, to make more eventful.
:Do you want to eventify your life? To make it fuller and brighter? Come to travel with us.

=== Emotions, Vir tues, In tellectual States ===
*[[lovedom]] n (love + suffix dom; cf. kingdom, stardom)  the world
of love, the totality of loving emotions and attitudes.
:Edward VIII, was that rare romantic who challenged society by trading his kingdom for lovedom.

=== Religiou s terms ===
* [[agnathiest]] - someone who doesn't like the definite "there is no god" of athiesm, but leans much more towards there being no god than a normal agnostic might
*[[apatheist]] - someone who claims not to care if there is a God or maintains such a fact would not change their life (perhaps due to their belief that such a God would not judge them, reward them, etc.)
*[[reLIcious]] adj (relic + religious]  religiously devoted to relics, to the preservation of the past.
:Example: Nothing in conte mporary life carries meaning for him. He is a deeply relicious person, not simply nostalgic.

 

See also [[Neologisms:stable]] and [[Neologisms:diffused]].


≈