==English==

===Etymology===
Unknown. [[Category:Unknown etymology james ball]]
*First used in [[w:Dr. Seuss|Dr. Seuss]]’s book ''If I Ran the Zoo'', 1950 as the name of an imaginary animal. 
:And then, just to show them, I’ll sail to Katroo
:And bring back an It-Kutch, a Preep and a Proo, 
:A Nerkle, a '''Nerd''' and a Seersucker too!
*Possibly from Mortimer Snerd, the name of [[w:Edgar Bergen|Edgar Bergen]]’s ventriloquist dummy.
*Possibly from the [[acronym]] N.E.R.D. on the pocket protectors of employees of the company Northern Electric Research and Developments;  it should be noted, however, that speculative etymologies based on acronyms are almost always false (such as “port out, starboard home” for “[[posh]]” and “to insure promptness” for “[[tip]]”) and are known as [[w:backronym|backronyms]].
*Possibly  a pronunciation of the word “[[drunk]]” spelled in reverse (“knurd”), used to mean a person who does not drink at parties; however, this seems somewhat contrived.

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|nû(r)d}}, {{IPA|/nɜː(r)d/}}, {{SAMPA|/n3:(r)d/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)d|-ɜː(r)d]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{italbrac|slang}} A generally intelligent person who shows interest and aptitude in multiple, usually academic-related subjects (as opposed to geeks, who are only interested in one such subject). This definition is independent of social skills.    
# {{italbrac|slang}} A person with a passion for a seemingly trivial and non-sports related pursuit, misunderstood by society at large but proud of personal achievements.
# {{italbrac|slang}} A Geek with social skills, who fits in well in most groups.

====Synonyms====
*{{italbrac-colon|socially unaccepted person}} {{italbrac-colon|all are slang and derogatory}} [[dag]] {{italbrac|Australian}}, [[dork]], [[dweeb]], [[geek]], [[loser]]

====Derived terms====
*[[nerdy]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nørd]]
*Estonian: [[nohik]]
*Finnish: [[nörtti]]
*Icelandic: [[nörd]]
*Japanese: [[オタク]], [[おたく]] (otaku)
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[#Norwegian|nerd]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[nerdi]] {{italbrac|Brazil}}, nerd {{italbrac|Brazil}}, [[CDF]] {{italbrac|Brazil}}
*Spanish: [[norio]], [[matón]], [[empollón]], [[friki]]
*Swedish: [[nörd]] {{c}}
*Thai: {{THchar|[[เนิร์ด]]}} (nerd) or {{THchar|[[หนอนหนังสือ]]}} (non-nung-sue)
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[w:nerd|Wikipedia article on nerds]]

[[Category:English slang]]

----

==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{no-noun-m1|nerd}}

#a [[#English|nerd]]

[[es:nerd]]
[[pt:nerd]]
[[fi:nerd]]