==English==

===Etymology===
Formed from [[nephew]]/[[niece]] by analogy with [[sibling]].

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /'nɪblɪŋ/

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[nephew]] or [[niece]], especially in the plural or as a gender-neutral term.
#*'''1989''' November, Gacs, ''Women Anthropologists: Selected Biographies'', University of Illinois Press
#*:She was close to her family, particularly her younger “siblings and '''niblings'''.” 
#*'''1998''' May, D.J. Kruger, ''Relative worth across disparate types of assistance'' [http://www-personal.umich.edu/~kruger/ks-gen.html]
#*:Kin selection was strongest for choices between sibling and friend, decreasing across sibling vs. '''nibling''', '''nibling''' vs. friend, and '''nibling''' vs. cousin.
#*'''1999''' June, Jay Miller, ''Lushootseed Culture and the Shamanic Odyssey'', University of Nebraska Press
#*:Most distinctive of the system, therefore, were the two terms for parental siblings and for '''niblings''', which occurred only among the Salish and neighboring Southern Nootkans.
#*'''2004''' January 29, Rabbi Josh Yuter, '''Nibling''' News, Yutopia [http://yutopia.yucs.org/archives/2004/01/nibling_news.html]
#*'''2005''' February, N. J. Enfield, "The Body as a Cognitive Artifact in Kinship Representations", ''Current Anthropology'', Volume 46, Number 1
#*:Cousins are informally referred to by the same terms used for siblings, but officially one has an aunt/uncle-'''nibling''' relationship with one's cousins
#*'''2005''' June 1, Sean M Theriault, ''The Power Of The People'', Ohio State University Press
#*:But, it is my niblings<sup>2</sup> [''sic.''] who taught me how to love.
#*'''2005''' December 7, "castiron" Casteel, ''The Bog of Lost Scholars'' [http://www.the-casteels.com/castiron/blog/index.php?topic=Crafts]
#*: Next up: Probably Baby Norgi for my '''nibling''', though I also have socks and fingerless mitts that need starting.

====Hyponyms====
;a nephew or niece
*[[nephew]]
*[[niece]]

====Translations====

;a nephew or niece
{{top}}
*Italian: [[nipote]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: (''siblings' children'') [[syskonbarn]] {{n}}, (''siblings' son'') [[nevö]] {{c}}, (''siblings' daughter'') [[niece#Swedish|niece]] {{c}}, (''brother's children'') [[brorsbarn]] {{n}}, (''brother's son'') [[brorson]] {{c}}, (''brother's daughter'') [[brorsdotter]] {{c}}, (''sister's children'') [[systerbarn]] {{n}}, (''sister's son'') [[systerson]] {{c}}, (''sister's daughter'') [[systerdotter]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
Apparently from [[nibble]] and [[-ling]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A fictional small aquatic creature in the Moomin series of books by Tove Jansson, which chew off people's noses if too long for their taste.

===Translations===
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[klippdassar]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[sibling]]

===References===
*[http://www.sf.airnet.ne.jp/~ts/language/kinship.html]