{{rfv}}
==English==
===Noun===
'''nice guy'''
#{{idiom}} An adult male who seeks sexual attraction and romantic intimacy, but only finds cordial friendship and platonic love.
#*'''1999''', ''The 'Nice Guy' Syndrome'', Self-Help Informational Resources, The Counseling Center for Human Development, The University of South Florida [http://web.archive.org/web/19991013184527/http://usfweb.usf.edu/counsel/self-hlp/niceguy.htm]
#*:The nice guy, they say, finishes last. But in romantic relationships, the '''nice guy''' often isn't even in the running.''...'' The '''nice guy''' may have expressed an interest in dating you''...''. The '''nice guy''' is the person who you trust and feel comfortable with, but don't see as "fun" or "challenging" or really all that "interesting," other than as a friend, of course.
#*'''2002''' May 3, Cecelia Goodnow, “What's wrong with being a '''nice guy'''? Plenty, according to a local therapist”, ''Seattle Post-Intelligencer''
#*:"My frustrations were pretty typical '''Nice Guy''' relationship issues," he says. "Not feeling appreciated, not feeling sexually desired by my wife. I didn't feel like''...''I received as much as I gave."
#*'''2005''' September 18, "Dirty D.", ''Lost Romanticism and the Manwhore'', DiaryLand, at uberfrau.diaryland.com
#*:'''Nice guys''' are historically the grail of dating. ''...'' As both Nora and I reminisced and compared how we were treated by the manwhore and by the '''nice guy''', the manwhore always won out.

====Derived terms====
*[[nice guy syndrome]]

===See also===
*[[Mr. Nice Guy]]