==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[niger]]'', "[[black]]".

Most of the romance languages ([[Italian]], [[Spanish]], [[Portuguese]]...) have the word "negro" meaning "black" (in colour) derived from the Latin "niger". During the period in America's history when black workers were shipped to southern America to work on plantations, this word came to be adopted from the hispanic South American languages to describe a person of dark skin. Essentially, a "negro" person simply means a "black" person. Through constant repetition of the Spanish word in the southern [[American]] [[accent]], it seems likely that the word was corrupted from "negro" to "niggero" to simply "nigger". The term "nigger" has taken on perjorative qualities as it implies not only darkness of skin, but a general lack of intelligence and sophistication. At the time of the word's origin, various English speaking North American settlers who set cultural standards considered black people fundementally inferior and less civilised. The term is generally considered offensive to black people not only because it singles them out on the basis of their skin colour, but also, because of its origin, it carries connotations of slavery, inferiority and oppression.

===Pronunciation===
*nĭg'ə(r), /ˈnɪɡə(r)/, /"nIg@(r)/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪɡə(r)|Rhymes: -ɪɡə(r)]]

===Usage Note===
Although this word comes from the Latin word \'\'[[niger]]\'\', which simply means \'\'\'black\'\'\', the use of this word to refer to a black or a person of [[African]] descent is normally considered pejorative (most often extremely, highly, or strongly so).  The word is, however, used by some black people as a neutral or even affirmative term when used in the form of \"nigga\".

When used by someone who is not black, \'\'nigger\'\' is almost invariably considered offensive.  In its pejorative sense, it arguably ranks as the most offensive and insulting racial/ethnic term in English, carrying with it strong connotations of cultural, aesthetic, and intellectual inferiority or deficiency (such connotations of deficiency extending to a perception of exoticism).  Indeed, the term \'\'can\'\' be callously cruel: with its most conceivably creatively pejorative uses (e.g., if a non-black were to hurl the term at a random black in a wincing and forceful way), the term can be loaded with meanings that all exude a perception of a highly deficient and exotic [[thinghood]] at its target, as unfair and false as the perceptions may be.

Attitudes changed amongst the political and media classes of the United States with the violent protests of the \"civil rights\" era and the proportionately reducing White population of that country. Amidst concerns that these factors would cause the population to fragment into separate, ethnically-orintated power bases, leading to widespread racial conflict, laws were enacted in an effort to bind the disparate population together under threat of severe legal repercussions. These laws restricted freedom of speech and action in areas pertaining to racial matters. As a result, \"politically correct\" opinions became the only acceptable views. These included the claims that blacks are not intellectually (or in other ways) inferior to other races, and supposed significant cultural contributions made by blacks. This environment has led to the writing of Nigger becoming taboo in many instances, or if it is written, it is often obfuscated as \"N_____\", \"N****r\", etc.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|nigger|niggers}}
# ''(normally considered offensive, often considered vulgar, see usage note):'' A dark-skinned person, especially a person of, or primarily of, Negro descent.
#: ''It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn't ever sorry for it afterwards, neither. I didn't do him no more mean tricks, and I wouldn't done that one if I'd a knowed it would make him feel that way.''  --Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain
# ''(slang, often considered offensive)'' A person of Negro descent who acts in an unapproved manner, usually as a [[badass]].
#:  ''I love black people, but I hate niggers'' --Chris Rock

====Translations====
'''negro person'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[زنجي]]}}, (zinjī)
*Danish: [[neger]]
*Dutch: [[nikker]] ''m'', [[neger]] {{m}}
*Estonian: [[neeger]]
*Finnish: [[neekeri]]
*French: [[bougnoule]], [[nègre]]
*German: [[Neger]] ''m''
*Hebrew: Kusshi ([[כושי]])
*Hungarian: [[néger]]
*Icelandic: [[negri]]
*Italian:  [[negro]], con accezione molto negativa
*Norwegian: [[svarting]], [[sotrør]], [[neger]],
*Polish: [[murzyn]]
*Romanian: [[cioara]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[Негр]]
*Slovak: [[neger]] {{m}}, [[negri]] {{p}}
*Spanish: [[mayate]], [[negro]]
*Swedish: [[neger]], [[svarting]]
*Turkish: [[zenci]]
*Yiddish:  [[Schvartze]], [[Shvartze]], [[Shvartzeh]], [[Shvartzer]], [[Schwartzer]]
{{bottom}}

=== Related terms ===
*[[kaffir]]
*[[jigaboo]]
*[[negro]]

=== Nigger Websites ===
[http://www.gnaa.us Gay Nigger Assocation of America], a support group for gay niggers.

[[Category:Ethnic slurs]]
[[fr:nigger]]
[[ja:nigger]]
[[fi:nigger]]