{{see|No|NO|nô|nō|Nō|nº|№}}
==Translingual==

===Abbreviation===
{{interwiktionary|code=no|name=Nowegian}}
'''no'''

# The ISO 639 language code for [[Norwegian]].
{{-}}
----

==English==

{{rank|would|been|will|48|no|them|when|if}}

{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology 1===

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-number.ogg|Audio (US) (number)}}

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''&#x2116;''', '''No.''', '''no.''' 

# [[number]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nr.]]
*Dutch: [[nr]], [[nº]]
*Finnish: [[nro]]
*French: [[nº]]
*Georgian: [[არა]] (ara)
*German: [[Nr.]]
*Interlingua: [[nº]]
*Italian: [[nº]], [[n.]], [[n.ro]], [[N#Italian|N]]
{{mid}}
*Latvian: [[nr.]]
*Lithuanian: [[nr.]]
*Polish: [[nr]] (''abbr.'' of [[numer]])
*Portuguese: [[nº]]
*Russian: [[№]] (nómer)
*Slovak: [[č.]]
*Slovene: [[št.]]
*Spanish: [[nº]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[nr]]
*Norwegian: [[nr]], [[nº]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-no.ogg|Audio (US)}}
===Interjection===
'''no'''
# Used to show disagreement or negation.
#:'' "No, you are mistaken."''
#:'' "No, you may not watch television now."''
# Used to show agreement with a negative question.
#:''"Don’t you like milk?" "''''No'''"'' (i.e., "No, I don’t like milk.")

====Antonyms====
*[[yes]]
*[[maybe]]

====Translations====
Used to show disagreement or negation.
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[ﻻ]]}} ([[lā]])
*Bikol: [[dae]], [[bako]] (used to mean ''is not'')
*Cebuano: [[dili]]
*Chinese: [[不]] (bù); [[否]] (fǒu)
*Czech: [[ne#Czech|ne]]
*Dutch: [[nee#Dutch|nee]], [[neen]] (''formal'')
*Esperanto: [[ne]]
*Estonian: [[ei#Estonian|ei]]
*Fijian: [[sega]] ([[:fj:sega|^]])
*Finnish: [[ei#Finnish|ei]]
*French: [[non#French|non]]
*[[Ga]]: [[daabi]], [[dabida]] (''emphatic'')
*[[Garífuna]]: [[inó]] (''used by males''), [[uá]] (''used by females'')
*German: [[nein]]
*Greek: [[όχι]] (ókhi)
*Hungarian: [[nem]]
*Hebrew: [[לא]] (lo)
*Hiligaynon: [[indi]], [[dili]]
*Icelandic: [[nei]]
*Ibanag: [[ari]]
*Indonesian: [[tidak]]
*Interlingua: [[no#Interlingua|no]]
*Italian: [[no#Italian|no]]
*Japanese: [[いいえ]] (íie) (''polite''), [[いえ]] (ie) (''polite''), [[ううん]] (uun) (''informal'')
*Kapampangan: [[ali]], [[e]] (used to negate verbs and nouns)
*Kinaray-a: [[indi]]
*Korean: [[아니오]] (anio), [[아뇨]] (anyo)
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: [[na]], [[ne]]
*Lao: (ba)
*Latin: [[non|nōn]]
*Latvian: [[nē]]
*Lithuanian: [[ne#Lithuanian|ne]]
*Norwegian: [[nei]]
*Novial: [[no#Novial|no]]
*Polish: [[nie#Polish|nie]]
*Pangasinan: [[andi]]
*Portuguese: [[não]]
*Quechua: [[mánan]]
*Romanian: [[nu#Romanian|nu]]
*Russian: [[нет]] (nyet)
*Slovak: [[nie#Slovak|nie]]
*Slovene: [[ne]]
*Spanish: [[no#Spanish|no]]
*Swedish: [[nej]]
*Tagalog: [[hindi]]
*Turkish: [[hayır]]
*[[Tzutujil]]: ''ken ta'''
*Ukrainian: [[ні]] (ni) 
*Vietnamese: [[không]]
*Volapük: [[no#Volapük|no]]
*Waray-Waray: [[diri]]
*Welsh: [[na]] (nǎ or nâ, using nazalized n; commonly used also by English speakers) 
{{bottom}}

'''Used to show agreement with a negative question'''
:''In some languages this response is the usual word for "yes"
{{top}}
*French: [[non#French|non]]
*[[Ga]]: [[hɛ̃ɛ]]
*Icelandic: [[já]]
*Japanese: [[はい]] (hai)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[예]] (ye), [[네]] (ne)
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''no'''

#Used to indicate zero amount or number.
#:''There is no water left.''
#:''No hot dogs were sold yesterday.''
#(''followed by a noun denoting an acitivity'') Used in notices to show that the activity is forbidden.
#:''No smoking''

====Antonyms====
*[[any]]
*[[some]]

====Translations====
;used to indicate zero amount or number
{{top}}
*Danish: [[uden]]
*Dutch: [[geen]]
*Esperanto: [[ne]]
*French: [[pas]] de, (''emphatically'') [[aucun]] {{m}}, [[aucune]] {{f}}
**''There is no water'' — Il n’y a pas d’eau
**''There are no horses here'' — Il n’y a pas de chevaux ici ''or'' Il n’y a aucun cheval ici
**''There are no apples'' — Il n’y a pas de pommes ''or'' Il n’y a aucune pomme
**''No horse has two tails'' Aucun cheval n’a deux queues **''No apple is blue'' — Aucune pomme n’est bleue
*German: [[kein]]
*Greek: [[δεν]] (ðen)/ [[δε]] (ðe), (''emphatically'') [[κανένας]] / [[κανείς]] {{m}}, [[καμιά]] {{f}}, [[κανένα]] {{n}} 
**''There are no horses here'' - Δεν υπάρχει άλογο εδώ ''or'' Δεν υπάρχει κανένα άλογο εδώ
*Icelandic: [[enginn]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[nulle]]
*:An expression with "no" qualifying a direct object is usually converted into an equivalent expression with "not" during translation: ''I eat no meat'' &rarr; ''I don’t eat meat'' &rarr; ''io non mangia carne''.
*Italian: [[non]], (''emphatically'') [[nessun]] {{m}}, [[nessun]] ''before a masc. noun beginning with ps, gn, x, z, or s + consonant'', [[nessuna]] {{f}}, [[nessun]]' ''before a fem. noun beginning with a vowel''
**''There is no water'' — Non c’è acqua
**''There are no horses here'' — Non ci sono cavalli qui ''or'' Non c’è nessun cavallo qui
**''There is no zero'' — Non c’è nessuno zero
**''There are no apples'' — Non ci sono mele ''or'' Non c’è nessuna mela
**''There is no goose here'' — Non c’è nessun’oca qui
**''No horse has two tails'' — Nessun cavallo a due code
**''No apple is blue'' — Nessuna mela è blu
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[non]]
*Norwegian: [[ingen]]
*[[Novial]]: [[nuli]]
*Portuguese: [[nenhum]] {{m}}, [[nenhuma]] {{f}}, [[nada]] de
*:An expression with "no" qualifying a direct object is usually converted into an equivalent expression with "[[not]]" during translation:
*:*''I eat no meat'' &rarr; ''I don’t eat meat'' &rarr; ''eu não como carne''.
*:If "no" can be acceptably replaced by "[[not even one]]", a double negation is introduced:
*:*''I see no houses'' (''which can be phrased as "I see not even one house"'') — ''Eu não vejo nenhuma casa''.
*:*''I eat no meat'' (''which cannot be phrased as "I eat not even one meat"'') — ''Eu não como carne''.
*Romanian: [[nu]], [[deloc]], [[nici]], [[niciun]]
**''There is no water'' — ''Nu este apă'' (statement), ''Nu este deloc apă'' (emphasis on negation).
**''There are no pencils'' — ''Nu sunt creioane'' (statement), ''Nu este niciun creion'' (emphasis on negation).
*Russian: [[нет]] (nyet, ''with the noun in the genitive case)
**''There is no water'' — {{RUchar|[[вода#Russian|Воды́]] нет. Нет [[вода#Russian|воды́]]}}.
**''There are no pencils'' — {{RUchar|[[карандаш|Карандаше́й]] нет. Нет [[карандаш|карандаше́й]]}}.
*Spanish: no (''see notes under Portuguese translation'')
*Swedish: [[ingen]] {{c}}, {{m}}, [[inga]] {{p}}, {{f}}, [[inget]] {{n}}
*Tagalog: [[wala]] 
*Turkish: ''agglutinative particle'' [[mi#Turkish|mi]], [[mu#Turkish|mu]], [[mı]], [[mü#Turkish|mü]] ''is included in the conjugation of the verb; choice depends on [[vowel harmony]]''; [[değil]]
{{bottom}}

;used to show an activity is forbidden
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[esht i ndaluar]] (''preceded by an infinitive'')
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[ممنوع]]}} {{Unicode|(memnúʕa)}} (''preceded by verbal noun'')
*Czech: [[zakázáno]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Danish: [[forbudt]] (''preceded by a verbal noun'')
*Dutch: [[verboden te]] (''followed by an infinitive''), [[verboden]] (''preceded by an infinitive'')
*Esperanto: [[malpermesi]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Finnish: [[kielletty]] (''preceded by a verbal noun'')
*French: [[défense de]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*German: [[verboten]] (''preceded by an infinitive'')
*Greek: [[απαγορεύεται το]] (apagorévetai to) (''followed by a verbal noun'')
*Hebrew: [[לא]] (lo) (''followed by verb with prefix'' [[ל]])
*Hungarian: [[tilos a]] (''followed by a verbal noun'')
*Italian: [[non#Italian|non]] (''followed by an infinitive''), [[vietato]] (''followed by an infinitive''), [[divieto di]] (''followed by an infinitive or the corresponding noun'')
*Lithuanian: [[nevale]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Latvian: [[aizliegts]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Norwegian: [[forbudt]] (''preceded by a verbal noun'')
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[ممنوع است]]}} (memnu ast) (''preceded by a verbal noun'')
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[nie wolno]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Portuguese: [[é proibido]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Romanian: [[interzis]], [[este interzis]] (''preceded by a verbal noun''):
*:''No smoking'' — ''Fumatul interzis''
*:''No trespassing'' — ''Intrarea interzisă''
*:''No honking from 10 pm to 6 am'' — ''Claxonarea este interzisă între orele 22 şi 6.''
*Russian: [[воспрещается]] (vospreščájetsja) (''followed by an imperfective infinitive'')
*Slovenian: [[prepovedano]] (''preceded by an infinitive'')
*Spanish: [[se prohíbe]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Swahili: [[hakuna]] (''followed by a ku-class infinitive'')
*Swedish: [[ingen]] (''followed by a noun denoting an activity''), [[förbjudet att]] (''followed by infinitive''), [[förbjuden]]/[[förbjudet]] (''preceded by a noun denoting an activity'')
*Tagalog: [[huwag]] (plus either future or infinitive form of verb)
*Turkish: [[yasaktır]] (''preceded by an infinitive or verbal noun'')
*Vietnamese: [[cấm]] (''followed by an infinitive'')
*Yiddish: [[ביט ניט צו]] (bíte nit tsu) (''followed by an infinitive'')
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[nem]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[tidak]], [[tak]], [[bukan]]
*{{ttbc|Javanese}}: [[ora]], [[mboten]], [[boten]]
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[아니오]] (anio)

===Noun===
'''no''' (''plural:'' '''noes''')

#A negating expression; an answer that shows disagreement or disapproval. 
#A vote not in favor, or opposing a proposition. 
#:''The workers voted on whether to strike, and there were thirty "yeses" and one "no".''

====Translations====
'''A negating expression'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[nej]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[nee#Dutch|nee]] {{f}}, [[neen]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[ei#Finnish|ei]]
*French: [[non#French|non]] {{m}}
*German: [[Nein]] {{n}}
*Interlingua: no
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: no
*Portuguese: [[não]] {{m}}
*Slovak: [[nie#Slovak|nie]]
*Swedish: [[nej]] {{n}}
*Vietnamese: [[lời không]]
{{bottom}}

'''A vote not in favor'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[neestem]] {{f}}, [[tegenstem]] {{f}}
*French: [[non#French|non]] {{m}}
*German: [[Gegenstimme]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: no
*Portuguese: [[não]]
*Slovak: [[proti]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Czech==
===Etymology===
Short for '''[[áno]]''' (''[[yes]]'')

===Interjection===
'''no'''
# well, why 
#:No ne! — ''Well, I never!'

===Adverb===
'''no'''

# [[certainly]], [[indeed]], [[of course]]
# [[yeah]], [[yep]]

----

==Finnish==
===Interjection===
'''no'''

# [[well]]! (''as in: "Well, that’s nice."'')

----

==French==
===Abbreviation===
'''No''', '''[[N°]]''', '''[[n°]]''' ([[numéro]])

# Number.

===Adverb===
'''no'''
#no

----

==Frisian==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[now]]

----

==Interlingua==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[no]]
#:No, ille non travalia hodie. — ''No, he is not working today''

===Noun===
'''no'''

#[[no]]
#:''Illa time audir un no.'' — ''She is afraid of hearing "no."''

----

==Italian==
===Adverb===
'''no'''
#no
#[[not]]

===See also===
*[[non#Italian|non]]

----

==Japanese==
===Romaji===
'''no''' (の)
#[[の]]: possessive particle ([[postposition]])

----

==Latin==
===Verb===
'''no'''
# (inflected form of [[nare]]) I swim

----

==Lojban==
===Cmavo===
'''no''' (''[[rafsi]]:'' non)
# [[zero]]

----

==Portuguese==
===Etymology===
Compound of [[em]] and [[o]]
===Preposition and article===
'''no'''

# [[in]] [[the]]

----

==Rohingya==
===Etymology===
From Bengali
===Numeral===
'''no'''

# [[nine]]

----

==Slovak==
===Etymology===
Short for '''[[áno]]'''

#[[yes]]

===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[yeah]], [[yep]]

----

==Spanish==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[no#English|no]]
#[[not]]

===Abbreviation===
'''&#x2116;, No., no.''' ([[número]])
# Number.

----

==Tok Pisin==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[not]]

----

==Vietnamese==
===Adverb===
'''no'''

#[[full]] (''of the stomach'')
#:''Đang no.'' — I’m full.
#:''No bụng.'' — My stomach’s full.

====Usage notes====
#The usages in the examples given here are the only meaning of "full" that ''no'' represents in Vietnamese.

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:English irregular plurals]]
[[Category:English determiners]]
[[Category:Rohingya language]]
[[Category:Negative words]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:Czech adverbs]]
[[Category:Czech interjections]]
[[Category:fi:Interjections]]
[[Category:French adverbs]]
[[Category:Frisian adverbs]]
[[Category:Italian adverbs]]
[[Category:Romaji]]
[[Category:jbo:Cardinal numbers]]
[[Category:Slovak adverbs]]
[[Category:Spanish adverbs]]
[[Category:Tok Pisin language]]
[[Category:Vietnamese adverbs]]

[[ca:no]]
[[de:no]]
[[fr:no]]
[[gl:no]]
[[ko:no]]
[[io:no]]
[[it:no]]
[[ku:no]]
[[hu:no]]
[[nl:no]]
[[ja:no]]
[[pl:no]]
[[pt:no]]
[[sl:no]]
[[fi:no]]
[[sv:no]]
[[ta:no]]
[[uk:no]]
[[vo:no]]
[[zh:no]]



here's a bunch of sweet ways you can use ASCII art with the word NO


|\| ()

 ****     **
/**/**   /**
/**//**  /**  ******
/** //** /** **////**
/**  //**/**/**   /**
/**   //****/**   /**
/**    //***//******
//      ///  //////

         ,--.
       ,--.'|
   ,--,:  : |
,`--.'`|  ' :   ,---.
|   :  :  | |  '   ,'\
:   |   \ | : /   /   |
|   : '  '; |.   ; ,. :
'   ' ;.    ;'   | |: :
|   | | \   |'   | .; :
'   : |  ; .'|   :    |
|   | '`--'   \   \  /
'   : |        `----'
;   |.'
'---'


###
# # ###
# # # #
# # ###
# #
88b 88  dP"Yb
88Yb88 dP   Yb
88 Y88 Yb   dP
88  Y8  YbodP

    /|    / /
   //|   / /  ___
  // |  / / //   ) )
 //  | / / //   / /
//   |/ / ((___/ /
/\/0
  O/#  \O/
 <|    _Y
 / \ _| |
_| |_   |_


`7MN.   `7MF'
  MMN.    M
  M YMb   M  ,pW"Wq.
  M  `MN. M 6W'   `Wb
  M   `MM.M 8M     M8
  M     YMM YA.   ,A9
.JML.    YM  `Ybmd9'


  o          o
 <|\        <|>
 / \\o      / \
 \o/ v\     \o/    o__ __o
  |   <\     |    /v     v\
 / \    \o  / \  />       <\
 \o/     v\ \o/  \         /
  |       <\ |    o       o
 / \        < \   <\__ __/>



      ::::    ::: ::::::::
     :+:+:   :+::+:    :+:
    :+:+:+  +:++:+    +:+
   +#+ +:+ +#++#+    +:+
  +#+  +#+#+#+#+    +#+
 #+#   #+#+##+#    #+#
###    #### ########
::::    ::: ::::::::
:+:+:   :+::+:    :+:
:+:+:+  +:++:+    +:+
+#+ +:+ +#++#+    +:+
+#+  +#+#+#+#+    +#+
#+#   #+#+##+#    #+#
###    #### ########
::::    ::: ::::::::
:+:+:   :+::+:    :+:
:+:+:+  +:++:+    +:+
+#+ +:+ +#++#+    +:+
+#+  +#+#+#+#+    +#+
#+#   #+#+##+#    #+#
###    #### ########
          _____                   _______
         /\    \                 /::\    \
        /::\____\               /::::\    \
       /::::|   |              /::::::\    \
      /:::::|   |             /::::::::\    \
     /::::::|   |            /:::/~~\:::\    \
    /:::/|::|   |           /:::/    \:::\    \
   /:::/ |::|   |          /:::/    / \:::\    \
  /:::/  |::|   | _____   /:::/____/   \:::\____\
 /:::/   |::|   |/\    \ |:::|    |     |:::|    |
/:: /    |::|   /::\____\|:::|____|     |:::|    |
\::/    /|::|  /:::/    / \:::\    \   /:::/    /
 \/____/ |::| /:::/    /   \:::\    \ /:::/    /
         |::|/:::/    /     \:::\    /:::/    /
         |::::::/    /       \:::\__/:::/    /
         |:::::/    /         \::::::::/    /
         |::::/    /           \::::::/    /
         /:::/    /             \::::/    /
        /:::/    /               \::/____/
        \::/    /                 ~~
         \/____/

N   N
NN  N
N N N ooo
N  NN o o
N   N ooo


. . .-.
|\| | |
' ` `-'

.:;S;:. .:;S;:.
 /      S     S
`:;S;:' `:;S;:'

 .S_sSSs      sSSs_sSSs
.SS~YS%%b    d%%SP~YS%%b
S%S   `S%b  d%S'     `S%b
S%S    S%S  S%S       S%S
S%S    S&S  S&S       S&S
S&S    S&S  S&S       S&S
S&S    S&S  S&S       S&S
S&S    S&S  S&S       S&S
S*S    S*S  S*b       d*S
S*S    S*S  S*S.     .S*S
S*S    S*S   SSSbs_sdSSS
S*S    SSS    YSSP~YSSY
SP
Y

.sSSSs.  SSSSS
SSSSS SS SSSSS .sSSSSs.
S SSS  `sSSSSS S SSSSSSSs.
S  SS    SSSSS S  SS SSSSS
S..SS    SSSSS S..SS SSSSS
S:::S    SSSSS S:::S SSSSS
S;;;S    SSSSS S;;;S SSSSS
S%%%S    SSSSS S%%%S SSSSS
SSSSS    SSSSS SSSSSsSSSSS

   . .       . .
.+'|=|`+. .+'|=|`+.
|  | `+ | |  | |  |
|  |  | | |  | |  |
|  |  | | |  | |  |
|  |  | | |  | |  |
|  |  | | |  | |  |
`+.|  |.| `+.|=|.+'

       ___
  .'| |   |   .'|=|`.
.'  |\|   | .'  | |  `.
|   | |   | |   | |   |
|   | |  .' `.  | |  .'
|___| |.'     `.|=|.'

.s    s.
      SS. .s5SSSs.
sSs.  S%S       SS.
SS`S. S%S sS    S%S
SS `S.S%S SS    S%S
SS  `sS%S SS    S%S
SS    `:; SS    `:;
SS    ;,. SS    ;,.
:;    ;:' `:;;;;;:'

                  ______
|..          |  .~      ~.
|  ``..      | |          |
|      ``..  | |          |
|          ``|  `.______.'

.-..-.  .-. .-..-..-.
| | ~.-.| | | | ~ | |
| |   ~ | | | |   | |
| |     | | | |   | |
| |     | | | | _ | |
`-'     `-' `-'`-'`-'

d s  b   sSSSs
S  S S  S     S
S   SS S       S
S    S S       S
S    S S       S
S    S  S     S
P    P   "sss"

,'',,'',
;  ;', ;
;  ; ; ;  ,'',,'',
;  ; ; ; ;   ;;   ;
;  ; ; ; ;   ;;   ;
;  ; ; ; ;   ;;   ;
',,' ','  ',,'',,'

>==>    >=>
>> >=>  >=>
>=> >=> >=>    >=>
>=>  >=>>=>  >=>  >=>
>=>   > >=> >=>    >=>
>=>    >>=>  >=>  >=>
>=>     >=>    >=>

 _,  _,____,
(-|\ |(-/  \
 _| \|,_\__/,
(     (
 _      ____
/ \  /|/  _ \
| |\ ||| / \|
| | \||| \_/|
\_/  \|\____/

#     #
##    #  ####
# #   # #    #
#  #  # #    #
#   # # #    #
#    ## #    #
#     #  ####

'##::: ##::'#######::
 ###:: ##:'##.... ##:
 ####: ##: ##:::: ##:
 ## ## ##: ##:::: ##:
 ##. ####: ##:::: ##:
 ##:. ###: ##:::: ##:
 ##::. ##:. #######::
..::::..:::.......:::
##    ##  #######
###   ## ##     ##
####  ## ##     ##
## ## ## ##     ##
##  #### ##     ##
##   ### ##     ##
##    ##  #######
.##....##..#######.
.###...##.##.....##
.####..##.##.....##
.##.##.##.##.....##
.##..####.##.....##
.##...###.##.....##
.##....##..#######.
><<<     ><<
>< ><<   ><<
><< ><<  ><<   ><<
><<  ><< ><< ><<  ><<
><<   >< ><<><<    ><<
><<    >< << ><<  ><<
><<      ><<   ><<

d8b   db  .d88b.
888o  88 .8P  Y8.
88V8o 88 88    88
88 V8o88 88    88
88  V888 `8b  d8'
VP   V8P  `Y88P'


 __    _
 |\   |    __.
 | \  |  .'   \
 |  \ |  |    |
 |   \|   `._.'

|\|()
 _   _
| \ | |
|  \| | ___
| . ` |/ _ \
| |\  | (_) |
|_| \_|\___/


_________________
    _     _
    /|   /
---/-| -/-----__-
  /  | /    /   )
_/___|/____(___/_



|\| _
| |(_)
01001110 01101111

_|      _|
_|_|    _|    _|_|
_|  _|  _|  _|    _|
_|    _|_|  _|    _|
_|      _|    _|_|


 .-----------------. .----------------.
| .--------------. || .--------------. |
| | ____  _____  | || |     ____     | |
| ||_   \|_   _| | || |   .'    `.   | |
| |  |   \ | |   | || |  /  .--.  \  | |
| |  | |\ \| |   | || |  | |    | |  | |
| | _| |_\   |_  | || |  \  `--'  /  | |
| ||_____|\____| | || |   `.____.'   | |
| |              | || |              | |
| '--------------' || '--------------' |
 '----------------'  '----------------'
888b    |
|Y88b   |  e88~-_
| Y88b  | d888   i
|  Y88b | 8888   |
|   Y88b| Y888   '
|    Y888  "88_-~

.-. .-. .---.
|  \{ |/ {-. \
| }\  {\ '-} /
`-' `-' `---'

.##..##...####..
.###.##..##..##.
.##.###..##..##.
.##..##..##..##.
.##..##...####..
................

b.             8     ,o888888o.
888o.          8  . 8888     `88.
Y88888o.       8 ,8 8888       `8b
.`Y888888o.    8 88 8888        `8b
8o. `Y888888o. 8 88 8888         88
8`Y8o. `Y88888o8 88 8888         88
8   `Y8o. `Y8888 88 8888        ,8P
8      `Y8o. `Y8 `8 8888       ,8P
8         `Y8o.`  ` 8888     ,88'
8            `Yo     `8888888P'
  _   _
 / \ / \
( N | o )
 \_/ \_/
 _  _  _____
( \( )(  _  )
 )  (  )(_)(
(_)\_)(_____)

     ##### #     ##
  ######  /#    #### /
 /#   /  / ##    ###/
/    /  /  ##    # #
    /  /    ##   #
   ## ##    ##   #    /###
   ## ##     ##  #   / ###  /
   ## ##     ##  #  /   ###/
   ## ##      ## # ##    ##
   ## ##      ## # ##    ##
   #  ##       ### ##    ##
      /        ### ##    ##
  /##/          ## ##    ##
 /  #####           ######
/     ##             ####
#
 ##



     ***** *     **
  ******  **    **** *
 **   *  * **    ****
*    *  *  **    * *
    *  *    **   *        ****
   ** **    **   *       * ***  *
   ** **     **  *      *   ****
   ** **     **  *     **    **
   ** **      ** *     **    **
   ** **      ** *     **    **
   *  **       ***     **    **
      *        ***     **    **
  ****          **      ******
 *  *****                ****
*     **
*
 **



.------..------.
|N.--. ||O.--. |
| :(): || :/\: |
| ()() || :\/: |
| '--'N|| '--'O|
`------'`------'
_///     _//
_/ _//   _//
_// _//  _//   _//
_//  _// _// _//  _//
_//   _/ _//_//    _//
_//    _/ // _//  _//
_//      _//   _//

 .-._          _,.---._
/==/ \  .-._ ,-.' , -  `.
|==|, \/ /, /==/_,  ,  - \
|==|-  \|  |==|   .=.     |
|==| ,  | -|==|_ : ;=:  - |
|==| -   _ |==| , '='     |
|==|  /\ , |\==\ -    ,_ /
/==/, | |- | '.='. -   .'
`--`./  `--`   `--`--''
 _______
|    |  |.-----.
|       ||  _  |
|__|____||_____|

O)))     O))
O) O))   O))
O)) O))  O))   O))
O))  O)) O)) O))  O))
O))   O) O))O))    O))
O))    O) )) O))  O))
O))      O))   O))

888b    888
8888b   888
88888b  888
888Y88b 888 .d88b.
888 Y88b888d88""88b
888  Y88888888  888
888   Y8888Y88..88P
888    Y888 "Y88P"



8"""8
8   8 eeeee
8e  8 8  88
88  8 8   8
88  8 8   8
88  8 8eee8

.  .
|\ | _
| \|(_)

.%%..%%...%%%%..
.%%%.%%..%%..%%.
.%%.%%%..%%..%%.
.%%..%%..%%..%%.
.%%..%%...%%%%..
................
:::.    :::.    ...
`;;;;,  `;;; .;;;;;;;.
  [[[[[. '[[,[[     \[[,
  $$$ "Y$c$$$$$,     $$$
  888    Y88"888,_ _,88P
  MMM     YM  "YMMMMMP"
:::.    :::.    ...
`;;;;,  `;;; .;;;;;;;.
  [[[[[. '[[,[[     \[[,
  $$$ "Y$c$$$$$,     $$$
  888    Y88"888,_ _,88P
  MMM     YM  "YMMMMMP"
 ____    ___
|    \  /   \
|  _  YY     Y
|  |  ||  O  |
|  |  ||     |
|  |  |l     !
l__j__j \___/

               .-'''-.
              '   _    \
   _..._    /   /` '.   \
 .'     '. .   |     \  '
.   .-.   .|   '      |  '
|  '   '  |\    \     / /
|  |   |  | `.   ` ..' /
|  |   |  |    '-...-'`
|  |   |  |
|  |   |  |
|  |   |  |
|  |   |  |
'--'   '--'
 ______
|   _  \.-----.
|.  |   |  _  |
|.  |   |_____|
|:  |   |
|::.|   |
`--- ---'

 __   _  _____
 | \  | |     |
 |  \_| |_____|

_  _ ____
|\ | |  |
| \| |__|

 __ _ ____
 | \| [__]
  _   _     U  ___ u
 | \ |"|     \/"_ \/
<|  \| |>    | | | |
U| |\  |u.-,_| |_| |
 |_| \_|  \_)-\___/
 ||   \\,-.    \\
 (_")  (_/    (__)
78 111

                     :
 L.                 t#,
 EW:        ,ft    ;##W.
 E##;       t#E   :#L:WE
 E###t      t#E  .KG  ,#D
 E#fE#f     t#E  EE    ;#f
 E#t D#G    t#E f#.     t#i
 E#t  f#E.  t#E :#G     GK
 E#t   t#K: t#E  ;#L   LW.
 E#t    ;#W,t#E   t#f f#:
 E#t     :K#D#E    f#D#;
 E#t      .E##E     G#t
 ..         G#E      t
             fE
              ,
/\\\     /\\
/\ /\\   /\\
/\\ /\\  /\\   /\\
/\\  /\\ /\\ /\\  /\\
/\\   /\ /\\/\\    /\\
/\\    /\ \\ /\\  /\\
/\\      /\\   /\\

+-+-+
|N|o|
+-+-+


NNNNNNNN        NNNNNNNN
N:::::::N       N::::::N
N::::::::N      N::::::N
N:::::::::N     N::::::N
N::::::::::N    N::::::N   ooooooooooo
N:::::::::::N   N::::::N oo:::::::::::oo
N:::::::N::::N  N::::::No:::::::::::::::o
N::::::N N::::N N::::::No:::::ooooo:::::o
N::::::N  N::::N:::::::No::::o     o::::o
N::::::N   N:::::::::::No::::o     o::::o
N::::::N    N::::::::::No::::o     o::::o
N::::::N     N:::::::::No::::o     o::::o
N::::::N      N::::::::No:::::ooooo:::::o
N::::::N       N:::::::No:::::::::::::::o
N::::::N        N::::::N oo:::::::::::oo
NNNNNNNN         NNNNNNN   ooooooooooo







 _   _
| \ | |
|  \| | ___
| . ` |/ _ \
| |\  | (_) |
\_| \_/\___/


 ??????   ?????
???????? ?????
 ??????? ????   ??????
 ???????????  ???????
 ???? ???????? ???? ????
 ????  ??????? ???? ????
 ?????  ??????????????
?????    ?????  ??????



 _           _
(_) _       (_)
(_)(_)_     (_)    _  _  _
(_)  (_)_   (_) _ (_)(_)(_) _
(_)    (_)_ (_)(_)         (_)
(_)      (_)(_)(_)         (_)
(_)         (_)(_) _  _  _ (_)
(_)         (_)   (_)(_)(_)


__  __ ___
||\ ||// \\
||\\|((   ))
|| \||\\_//

__  __  _____
||\\|| ((   ))
|| \||  \\_//
 _ _
| \ | ___
|   |/ . \
|_\_|\___/

No







No

         #########
  ':v:`  ###(:)###
  (o:0)  ###|:|###
   (:)   ###|:|###
         #########
 _  _
| \| |_
| \\ /o\
|_|\_\_/

 _
[|\|o

 _   _
( \ ( )
| \\| | ___
( )\\ )( o )
/_\ \_\ \_/

   _  __
  / |/ / _
 / || /,'o|
/_/|_/ |_,'

               #   ___
     (((       #  <_*_>
    (o o)      #  (o o)
ooO--(_)--Ooo--8---(_)--Ooo-
 _ _
 )\`) __
((`( ((_)

 _        _______
( (    /|(  ___  )
|  \  ( || (   ) |
|   \ | || |   | |
| (\ \) || |   | |
| | \   || |   | |
| )  \  || (___) |
|/    )_)(_______)

'||\   ||`
 ||\\  ||
 || \\ ||  .|''|,
 ||  \\||  ||  ||
.||   \||. `|..|'


    )
 ( /(
 )\())
((_)\   (
 _((_)  )\
| \| | ((_)
| .` |/ _ \
|_|\_|\___/

    )
 ( /(
 )\())
((_)\  (
 _((_) )\
| \| |((_)
| .` / _ \
|_|\_\___/

,---.   .--.    ,-----.
|    \  |  |  .'  .-,  '.
|  ,  \ |  | / ,-.|  \ _ \
|  |\_ \|  |;  \  '_ /  | :
|  _( )_\  ||  _`,/ \ _/  |
| (_ o _)  |: (  '\_/ \   ;
|  (_,_)\  | \ `"/  \  ) /
|  |    |  |  '. \_/``".'
'--'    '--'    '-----'

|\  |
| \ |/~\
|  \|\_/

     ...     ...
  .=*8888n.."%888:
 X    ?8888f '8888          u.
 88x. '8888X  8888>   ...ue888b
'8888k 8888X  '"*8h.  888R Y888r
 "8888 X888X .xH8     888R I888>
   `8" X888!:888X     888R I888>
  =~`  X888 X888X     888R I888>
   :h. X8*` !888X    u8888cJ888
  X888xX"   '8888..:  "*888*P"
:~`888f     '*888*"     'Y"
    ""        `"`



\\\  ///   .-.
((O)(O)) c(O_O)c
 | \ || ,'.---.`,
 ||\\||/ /|_|_|\ \
 || \ || \_____/ |
 ||  ||'. `---' .`
(_/  \_) `-...-'
\\\  ///   .-.
((O)(O)) c(O_O)c
 | \ || ,'.---.`,
 ||\\||/ /|_|_|\ \
 || \ || \_____/ |
 ||  ||'. `---' .`
(_/  \_) `-...-'
.-..-.
: `: :
: .` : .--.
: :. :' .; :
:_;:_;`.__.'




___      ___
`MM\     `M'
 MMM\     M
 M\MM\    M   _____
 M \MM\   M  6MMMMMb
 M  \MM\  M 6M'   `Mb
 M   \MM\ M MM     MM
 M    \MM\M MM     MM
 M     \MMM MM     MM
 M      \MM YM.   ,M9
_M_      \M  YMMMMM9



     .-') _
    ( OO ) )
,--./ ,--,'  .-'),-----.
|   \ |  |\ ( OO'  .-.  '
|    \|  | )/   |  | |  |
|  .     |/ \_) |  |\|  |
|  |\    |    \ |  | |  |
|  | \   |     `'  '-'  '
`--'  `--'       `-----'
 )\  )\     .-./(
(  \, /   ,'     )
 ) \ (   (  .-, (
( ( \ \   ) '._\ )
 `.)/  ) (  ,   (
    '.(   )/ ._.'

__   ____
| \|\|   |
|  \|| . |
|/\_/|___/
     ___    ___     ___
|    \  |  |   )   (
|  |\ \ |  |  /     \
|  | \ \|  | (       )
|  |  \    |  \     /
|  |___\   |___)   (___
    __
   /  -,
  ||   )
 ~||---)  /'\\
 ~||---, || ||
 ~||  /  || ||
  |, /   \\,/
-_-  --~

 __ _   __
(  ( \ /  \
/    /(  O )
\_)__) \__/
eeeeeee...eeeeee..
@@@@@@@@:@@@@@@@@:
%%%--%%%-%%%--%%%-
&&&++&&&+&&&++&&&+
|||**|||*|||**|||*
!!!==!!!=!!!==!!!=
:::##:::#::::::::#
...@@...@@......@@

 _______
 \      \   ____
 /   |   \ /  _ \
/    |    (  <_> )
\____|__  /\____/
        \/

 _   _
| \ | |
|  \| | ___
|     |/ _ \
| |\  ( (_) )
|_| \_|\___/


 .-.-. .-.-.
( N .'( o .'
 `.(   `.(

.-.-. .-.-.
'. N )'. o )
  ).'   ).'

   _  _
  F L L]     ____
 J   \| L   F __ J
 | |\   |  | |--| |
 F L\\  J  F L__J J
J__L \\__LJ\______/F
|__L  J__| J______F

4E 6F

         .-.
        _|_ \
^^^^^^^ (_)
           _
          ' )    )
          //   /'
        /'/  /' ____
      /' / /' /'    )--
    /'  //' /'    /'
(,/'    (_,(___,/'



         _             _
        /\ \     _    /\ \
       /  \ \   /\_\ /  \ \
      / /\ \ \_/ / // /\ \ \
     / / /\ \___/ // / /\ \ \
    / / /  \/____// / /  \ \_\
   / / /    / / // / /   / / /
  / / /    / / // / /   / / /
 / / /    / / // / /___/ / /
/ / /    / / // / /____\/ /
\/_/     \/_/ \/_________/

   __     __)
  (, /|  /
    / | /  ___
 ) /  |/  (_)
(_/   '

      ___           ___
     /\__\         /\  \
    /::|  |       /::\  \
   /:|:|  |      /:/\:\  \
  /:/|:|  |__   /:/  \:\  \
 /:/ |:| /\__\ /:/__/ \:\__\
 \/__|:|/:/  / \:\  \ /:/  /
     |:/:/  /   \:\  /:/  /
     |::/  /     \:\/:/  /
     /:/  /       \::/  /
     \/__/         \/__/
      ___           ___
     /\  \         /\  \
     \:\  \       /::\  \
      \:\  \     /:/\:\  \
  _____\:\  \   /:/  \:\  \
 /::::::::\__\ /:/__/ \:\__\
 \:\~~\~~\/__/ \:\  \ /:/  /
  \:\  \        \:\  /:/  /
   \:\  \        \:\/:/  /
    \:\__\        \::/  /
     \/__/         \/__/
      ___           ___
     /__/\         /  /\
     \  \:\       /  /::\
      \  \:\     /  /:/\:\
  _____\__\:\   /  /:/  \:\
 /__/::::::::\ /__/:/ \__\:\
 \  \:\~~\~~\/ \  \:\ /  /:/
  \  \:\  [[User:Gassy|Gassy]]   \  \:\  /:/
   \  \:\        \  \:\/:/
    \  \:\        \  \::/
     \__\/         \__\/
      ___           ___
     /  /\         /  /\
    /  /::|       /  /::\
   /  /:|:|      /  /:/\:\
  /  /:/|:|__   /  /:/  \:\
 /__/:/ |:| /\ /__/:/ \__\:\
 \__\/  |:|/:/ \  \:\ /  /:/
     |  |:/:/   \  \:\  /:/
     |__|::/     \  \:\/:/
     /__/:/       \  \::/
     \__\/         \__\/

 /| )
/ |/()

                                                                         _   _
                                                                    ___ | \ | |
                                                                   / _ \|  \| |
                                                                  | (_) | |\  |
                                                                   \___/|_| \_|

    __      _     ____
   /  \    / )   / __ \
  / /\ \  / /   / /  \ \
  ) ) ) ) ) )  ( ()  () )
 ( ( ( ( ( (   ( ()  () )
 / /  \ \/ /    \ \__/ /
(_/    \__/      \____/


o    o
8b   8
8`b  8 .oPYo.
8 `b 8 8    8
8  `b8 8    8
8   `8 `YooP'
..:::..:.....:
::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::

                                                                ________ _   _
                                                               |.  ___  | \ | |
                                                                | |   | |  \| |
                                                                | |___| | |\  |
                                                                |_______|_| \_|

  #        #   #
  #        #   #
########## #   #
  #     #  #   #
  #           #
  #          #
   ######  ##

'|.   '|'
 |'|   |    ...
 | '|. |  .|  '|.
 |   |||  ||   ||
.|.   '|   '|..|'



 _______ _______
|\     /|\     /|
| +---+ | +---+ |
| |   | | |   | |
| |N  | | |o  | |
| +---+ | +---+ |
|/_____\|/_____\|

I`.I ,?`.
I `I `..'
 /1 /  /?/
/ 1/  /./
 __  __
/\ \/\ \
\ \ `\\ \    ___
 \ \ , ` \  / __`\
  \ \ \`\ \/\ \L\ \
   \ \_\ \_\ \____/
    \/_/\/_/\/___/



|\  |
| + |  -
|  \| | |
       -


    _/      _/
   _/_/    _/    _/_/
  _/  _/  _/  _/    _/
 _/    _/_/  _/    _/
_/      _/    _/_/


NN   NN
NNN  NN  oooo
NN N NN oo  oo
NN  NNN oo  oo
NN   NN  oooo

<-. (`-')_
   \( OO) )     .->
,--./ ,--/ (`-')----.
|   \ |  | ( OO).-.  '
|  . '|  |)( _) | |  |
|  |\    |  \|  |)|  |
|  | \   |   '  '-'  '
`--'  `--'    `-----'
.-..-..----.
| .` || || |
`-'`-'`----'

::\ ::|
::::::|,::\
::| \:|`::/

/ \
|\| /=\
\ / \=/

.:::     .::
.: .::   .::
.:: .::  .::   .::
.::  .:: .:: .::  .::
.::   .: .::.::    .::
.::    .: :: .::  .::
.::      .::   .::

|\  |
| \ |/~\
|  \|\_/


 |\  |


|\ | _
| \|(_)

                                                                         _   _
                                                                    ___ | | / |
                                                                   / _ \| |/  |
                                                                  | (_) |  /| |
                                                                   \___/|_/ |_|

No
-. ---
-. ---

#   #  ###
#   # #   #
##### #   #
#   # #   #
#   #  ###

                                                                           |""|
                                                                           |__|

M"""""""`YM
M  mmmm.  M
M  MMMMM  M .d8888b.
M  MMMMM  M 88'  `88
M  MMMMM  M 88.  .88
M  MMMMM  M `88888P'
MMMMMMMMMMM

888888ba
88    `8b
88     88 .d8888b.
88     88 88'  `88
88     88 88.  .88
dP     dP `88888P'


888888ba
88    `8b
88     88 .d8888b.
88     88 88'  `88
88     88 88.  .88
dP     dP `88888P'
ooooooooooooooooooo

888888ba
88    `8b
88     88 .d8888b.
88     88 88'  `88
88     88 88.  .88
dP     dP `88888P'


{___     {__
{_ {__   {__
{__ {__  {__   {__
{__  {__ {__ {__  {__
{__   {_ {__{__    {__
{__    {_ __ {__  {__
{__      {__   {__

 ,ggg, ,ggggggg,
dP""Y8,8P"""""Y8b
Yb, `8dP'     `88
 `"  88'       88
     88        88
     88        88    ,ggggg,
     88        88   dP"  "Y8ggg
     88        88  i8'    ,8I
     88        Y8,,d8,   ,d8'
     88        `Y8P"Y8888P"







 _   _
| \ | |
|  \| | ___
|     |/ _ \
| |\  ( (_) )
|_| \_|\___/


 ,ggg, ,ggggggg,
dP""Y8,8P"""""Y8b
Yb, `8dP'     `88
 `"  88'       88
     88        88
     88        88    ,ggggg,
     88        88   dP"  "Y8ggg
     88        88  i8'    ,8I
     88        Y8,,d8,   ,d8'
     88        `Y8P"Y8888P"






oooo   oooo
 8888o  88   ooooooo
 88 888o88 888     888
 88   8888 888     888
o88o    88   88ooo88

116 157
     __
  /\ \ \___
 /  \/ / _ \
/ /\  / (_) |
\_\ \/ \___/

#     #
##    #  ####
# #   # #    #
#  #  # #    #
#   # # #    #
#    ## #    #
#     #  ####
ooo____oo_________
oooo___oo__ooooo__
oo_oo__oo_oo___oo_
oo__oo_oo_oo___oo_
oo___oooo_oo___oo_
oo____ooo__ooooo__
__________________

 _     _
(_)   (_)
(__)_ (_)  ___
(_)(_)(_) (___)
(_)  (__)(_)_(_)
(_)   (_) (___)


/^^^     /^^
/^ /^^   /^^
/^^ /^^  /^^   /^^
/^^  /^^ /^^ /^^  /^^
/^^   /^ /^^/^^    /^^
/^^    /^ ^^ /^^  /^^
/^^      /^^   /^^

     _/\/\____/\/\_____________
    _/\/\/\__/\/\____/\/\/\___
   _/\/\/\/\/\/\__/\/\__/\/\_
  _/\/\__/\/\/\__/\/\__/\/\_
 _/\/\____/\/\____/\/\/\___
__________________________
o.     O
Oo     o
O O    O
O  o   o
O   o  O .oOo.
o    O O O   o
o     Oo o   O
O     `o `OoO'



 /|/_
/ |/_/


@@@  @@@   @@@@@@
@@@@ @@@  @@@@@@@@
@@!@!@@@  @@!  @@@
!@!!@!@!  !@!  @!@
@!@ !!@!  @!@  !@!
!@!  !!!  !@!  !!!
!!:  !!!  !!:  !!!
:!:  !:!  :!:  !:!
 ::   ::  ::::: ::
::    :    : :  :

 _   _
( ) ( )
| `\| |   _
| , ` | /'_`\
| |`\ |( (_) )
(_) (_)`\___/'


  ^    ^
 /N\  /o\
<___><___>

 _____
|   | |___
| | | | . |
|_|___|___|

 _______
 \      \     ____
 /   |   \   /  _ \
/    |    \ (  <_> )
\____|__  /  \____/
        \/

______________________
/~~\__/~~\__/03:20, 5 August 2006 (UTC)~\__
/[[User:Gassy|Gassy]] 03:20, 5 August 2006 (UTC)\/~~\_/~~\__/~~\_
/03:20, 5 August 2006 (UTC)[[User:Gassy|Gassy]]\_/~~\__/~~\_
/~~\/[[User:Gassy|Gassy]] 03:20, 5 August 2006 (UTC)\_/~~\__/~~\_
/~~\__/~~\__/03:20, 5 August 2006 (UTC)~\__
______________________
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
/// \\/// \\/////// \\
///// /// \/// \\/// \
///////// \/// \\/// \
/// ///// \/// \\/// \
/// \\/// \\/////// \\
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
====================
=  =======  ========
=   ======  ========
=    =====  ========
=  ==  ===  ===   ==
=  ===  ==  ==     =
=  ====  =  ==  =  =
=  =====    ==  =  =
=  ======   ==  =  =
=  =======  ===   ==
====================
====================
=  =======  ========
=   ======  ========
=    =====  ========
=  ==  ===  ===   ==
=  ===  ==  ==     =
=  ====  =  ==  =  =
=  =====    ==  =  =
=  ======   ==  =  =
=  =======  ===   ==
====================
ooooo      ooo
`888b.     `8'
 8 `88b.    8   .ooooo.
 8   `88b.  8  d88' `88b
 8     `88b.8  888   888
 8       `888  888   888
o8o        `8  `Y8bod8P'



Ab
 _______
(_______)
 _     _  ___
| |   | |/ _ \
| |   | | |_| |
|_|   |_|\___/

    dMMMMb  .aMMMb
   dMP dMP dMP"dMP
  dMP dMP dMP dMP
 dMP dMP dMP.aMP
dMP dMP  VMMMP"

Y88b Y88
 Y88b Y8  e88 88e
b Y88b Y d888 888b
8b Y88b  Y888 888P
88b Y88b  "88 88"


  |
\ |
 \|
  |\
  | \
  |
  |
\ |
 \|
  |\  /\
  | \ \/
  |   /\
__/\\\\\_____/\\\_______________
 _\/\\\\\\___\/\\\_______________
  _\/\\\/\\\__\/\\\_______________
   _\/\\\//\\\_\/\\\_____/\\\\\____
    _\/\\\\//\\\\/\\\___/\\\///\\\__
     _\/\\\_\//\\\/\\\__/\\\__\//\\\_
      _\/\\\__\//\\\\\\_\//\\\__/\\\__
       _\/\\\___\//\\\\\__\///\\\\\/___
        _\///_____\/////_____\/////_____
 _ __
( /  )
 /  / __
/  (_(_)


 @@@  @@@  @@@@@@
 @@!@!@@@ @@!  @@@
 @!@@!!@! @!@  !@!
 !!:  !!! !!:  !!!
 ::    :   : :. :

 , _
/|/ \
 |   |   __
 |   |  /  \_
 |   |_/\__/


 _  _  __
( \( )/  \
 )  (( () )
(_)\_)\__/
  \  |
   \ |  _ \
 |\  | (   |
_| \_|\___/

.  .
|\ |
| \| ,-.
|  | | |
'  ' `-'

|\ |
| \|()

    _   __
   / | / /___
  /  |/ / __ \
 / /|  / /_/ /
/_/ |_/\____/

##  ||
##H || #H|
##HH||## H|
## H||## H|
##  || #H|

 _ __
' )  )
 /  / __
/  (_(_)


 _  _
| \| |___
| .` / _ \
|_|\_\___/

 _  _   ____
) \/ ( / __ \
|  \ | ))__((
)_()_( \____/

    ___       ___
   /\__\     /\  \
  /:| _|_   /::\  \
 /::|/\__\ /:/\:\__\
 \/|::/  / \:\/:/  /
   |:/  /   \::/  /
   \/__/     \/__/
 ____ ____
||N |||o ||
||__|||__||
|/__\|/__\|

@@@  @@@  @@@@@@
@@!@!@@@ @@!  @@@
@!@@!!@! @!@  !@!
!!:  !!! !!:  !!!
::    :   : :. :

 ,
/|/\    _
 |  |  / \_
 |  |_/\_/

  \ |
 .  |  _ \
_|\_|\___/

   _  __
  / |/ /__
 /    / _ \
/_/|_/\___/

 _ _  c
| ) ) |


,--.  ,--.
|  ,'.|  | ,---.
|  |' '  || .-. |
|  | `   |' '-' '
`--'  `--' `---'

_____   __
___  | / /_____
__   |/ /_  __ \
_  /|  / / /_/ /
/_/ |_/  \____/

______________
7     77     7
|  _  ||  7  |
|  7  ||  |  |
|  |  ||  !  |
!__!__!!_____!

,-,-.
` | |   ,-.
  | |-. | |
 ,' `-' `-'


,-,-.
` | |   ,-.
  | |-. | |
 ,' `-' `-'


 _   _
| \ | | ___
|  \| |/ _ \
| |\  | (_) |
|_| \_|\___/

.__   __.   ______
|  \ |  |  /  __  \
|   \|  | |  |  |  |
|  . `  | |  |  |  |
|  |\   | |  `--'  |
|__| \__|  \______/

`...     `..
`. `..   `..
`.. `..  `..   `..
`..  `.. `.. `..  `..
`..   `. `..`..    `..
`..    `. .. `..  `..
`..      `..   `..

 __  _  __
|  \| |/__\
| | ' | \/ |
|_|\__|\__/
 ______
|  ___ \
| |   | | ___
| |   | |/ _ \
| |   | | |_| |
|_|   |_|\___/


|\ | _
| \|(_)

 __   __     ______
/\ "-.\ \   /\  __ \
\ \ \-.  \  \ \ \/\ \
 \ \_\\"\_\  \ \_____\
  \/_/ \/_/   \/_____/

 ___   __    ______
/__/\ /__/\ /_____/\
\::\_\\  \ \\:::_ \ \
 \:. `-\  \ \\:\ \ \ \
  \:. _    \ \\:\ \ \ \
   \. \`-\  \ \\:\_\ \ \
    \__\/ \__\/ \_____\/

N)n   nn
N)nn  nn
N) nn nn  o)OOO
N)  nnnn o)   OO
N)   nnn o)   OO
N)    nn  o)OOO


                 .dP"Yb
               dP'   d'

`Yb d88b d88b    'Yb
 88P   8Y   8b    88
 88    8P   88    88
.8P  bdP  bdP    .8P



No
 ___    __ _________
|   \  |  /    O    \
|____\_|__\_________/
 `BBBBBBB' `BBBBBBB'
8b  8
8Ybm8 .d8b.
8  "8 8' .8
8   8 `Y8P'


,   .
|\  |,---.
| \ ||   |
`  `'`---'

|\ | _
| \|(_)

_/\/\____/\/\_____________
_/\/\/\__/\/\____/\/\/\___
_/\/\/\/\/\/\__/\/\__/\/\_
_/\/\__/\/\/\__/\/\__/\/\_
_/\/\____/\/\____/\/\/\___
__________________________
     _/\/\____/\/\_____________
    _/\/\/\__/\/\____/\/\/\___
   _/\/\/\/\/\/\__/\/\__/\/\_
  _/\/\__/\/\/\__/\/\__/\/\_
 _/\/\____/\/\____/\/\/\___
__________________________
[...     [..
[. [..   [..
[.. [..  [..   [..
[..  [.. [.. [..  [..
[..   [. [..[..    [..
[..    [. .. [..  [..
[..      [..   [..

o   o
|\  |
| \ | o-o
|  \| | |
o   o o-o


 _, _  _,
 |\ | / \
 | \| \ /
 ~  ~  ~

  _  _
 | \| |    ___
 | .` |   / _ \
 |_|\_|   \___/
_|"""""|_|"""""|
"`-0-0-'"`-0-0-'
     dBBBBb  dBBBBP
        dBP dBP.BP
   dBP dBP dBP.BP
  dBP dBP dBP.BP
 dBP dBP dBBBBP

  __   ___  __
 /  ~~  |    |
|       \    |
|    ~   \  /
 \__/     \/
O[[User:Gassy|Gassy]]     O~~
O~ O~~   O~~
O~~ O~~  O~~   O~~
O~~  O~~ O~~ O~~  O~~
O~~   O~ O~~O~~    O~~
O~~    O~ ~~ O~~  O~~
O~~      O~~   O~~

  __   __     _____
 /_/\ /\_\   ) ___ (
 ) ) \ ( (  / /\_/\ \
/_/   \ \_\/ /_/ (_\ \
\ \ \   / /\ \ )_/ / /
 )_) \ (_(  \ \/_\/ /
 \_\/ \/_/   )_____(

|\ | _
| \|(_)

888b      88
8888b     88
88 `8b    88
88  `8b   88  ,adPPYba,
88   `8b  88 a8"     "8a
88    `8b 88 8b       d8
88     `8888 "8a,   ,a8"
88      `888  `"YbbdP"'


 :::= === :::====
 :::===== :::  ===
 ======== ===  ===
 === ==== ===  ===
 ===  ===  ======

 ____  _____
|_   \|_   _|
  |   \ | |   .--.
  | |\ \| | / .'`\ \
 _| |_\   |_| \__. |
|_____|\____|'.__.'


 /| |
( | | ___
| | )|   )
| |/ |__/

 .-. .-. .---.
 |  \| |/ .-. )
 |   | || | |(_)
 | |\  || | | |
 | | |)|\ `-' /
 /(  (_) )---'
(__)    (_)



  88bd88b  d8888b
  88P' ?8bd8P' ?88
 d88   88P88b  d88
d88'   88b`?8888P'