{{webster}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-əʊd|-əʊd]]

===Noun===
'''node''' (''plural'' '''nodes''')
#A knot, a knob; a protuberance; a swelling.
#{{Astronomy}} The point where the [[orbit]] of a [[planet]], as viewed from the [[sun]], intersects the [[ecliptic]]. The [[ascend]]ing and [[descend]]ing nodes refer respetively to the [[point]]s where the planet moves from S to N and N to S. The respective symbols are ☊ and ☋.
#The joint of a stem, or the part where a leaf or several leaves are inserted.
#A hole in the gnomon of a dial, through which passes the ray of light which marks the hour of the day, the parallels of the sun's declination, his place in the ecliptic, etc.
#{{geometry}} The point at which a curve crosses itself, being a double point of the curve. See Crunode, and Acnode.
#The point at which the lines of a funicular machine meet from different angular directions; -- called also knot.
#The knot, intrigue, or plot of a piece.
#A hard concretion or incrustation which forms upon bones attacked with rheumatism, gout, or syphilis; sometimes also, a swelling in the neighborhood of a joint.
#One of the fixed points of a sonorous string, when it vibrates by aliquot parts, and produces the harmonic tones; nodal line or point.
#A swelling.
#{{graphtheory}} A [[vertex]] of a [[graph]].
#{{computing_theory}} {{cattag|computer networking}} A [[vertex]] or a [[leaf]] in a [[graph]] of a [[network]]; a [[computer]] or other device attached to a [[network]]

====Derived terms====
*[[acnode]]
*[[crunode]]
*[[tacnode]]

====Related terms====
*[[nodal]]

====Synonyms====
*{{cattag|computer networking}} [[host]]

===See also===
*[[neurode]]

[[fr:node]]
[[pt:node]]
[[sv:node]]
[[zh:node]]