==English==
{{webster}}
===Noun===
'''nog'''

#A [[wooden]] [[block]], of the size of a [[brick]], built into a [[wall]], as a [[hold]] for the [[nail]]s of [[woodwork]]. 
#One of the [[square]] [[log]]s of [[wood]] used in a [[pile]] to [[support]] the [[roof]] of a [[mine]]. 
#(Shipbuilding) A [[treenail]] to [[fasten]] the [[shore]]s. 
#Short for [[noggin]].
#Short for [[eggnog]].

===Transitive verb===

'''to nog'''
#To [[fill in]], as between [[scantling]], with [[brickwork]]. 
#(Shipbuilding) To fasten, as shores, with treenails. 


<!-- from Webster:
Nog (Page: 979)
Nog (?), n. [Abbrev. fr. noggin.] 

1. A noggin. 

2. A kind of strong ale. Halliwell. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nog (Page: 979)
Nog, n. [Etymol. uncertain.] 

1. A wooden block, of the size of a brick, built into a wall, as a hold for the nails of woodwork. 

2. One of the square logs of wood used in a pile to support the roof of a mine. 

3. (Shipbuilding) A treenail to fasten the shores. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nog (Page: 979)
Nog, v. t. [From 2d Nog.] 

1. To fill in, as between scantling, with brickwork. 

2. (Shipbuilding) To fasten, as shores, with treenails. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Displaying 1 result(s) from the 1828 edition:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
NOG, n. A little pot; also, ale.
-->

==Swedish==
===Adverb===
'''nog'''

#[[enough]], [[sufficient]]
#:''Har vi '''nog''' med mat för picknicken?'' = ''Do we have enough food for the picnic?''
#[[probably]]

[[category:Swedish language]]
[[sv:nog]]