==English==
===Etymology===
It is certain that the word is derived from the base of the Germanic words for [[north]] and the Germanic base of the words for [[man]]. However, given the frequent movement of Germanic groups especially into and out of Britain in the post-classical world, it is unclear in what tongue it came to be used first. In addition, the generally accepted meaning, a person from Normandy or one of the many French speaking invaders to Britain, was used chiefly by [[Anglo-Norman]] and [[Old French]], though it originally referred to any Scandinavian of the time. ''See [[Northman]].''

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|s}}
# A person whose ancestors are from Normandy or who resides in Normandy.
# A member of the mixed Scandinavian and Frankish peoples who in the 11th century were a major military power in Western Europe and who conquered the English in 1066. 
# The ''[[langue d'oïl]]'' (closely related to French), spoken in Normandy and the Channel Islands, once spoken in parts of Quebec (until the mid 20th century), and once the ruling language of England (see [[Anglo-Norman]]).
# A Northman. (Rare)
# a [[male]] [[given name]]

[[Category:Male given names]]
[[Category:English proper adjectives]]

====Translation====
'''male given name'''
* Scottish Gaelic: [[Tormod]]

===Proper adjective===
'''Norman'''
# Of or pertaining to Normandy or its inhabitants (present or past).
# Relating to the Norman language.  (i.e. ''Norman vocabulary'')
# Referring to the dialect of French spoken there. (not very common)
# Relating to the Romanesque architechture developed by the Normans after the Norman Conquest, characterized by large arches and heavy columns.

[[de:Norman]]
[[sr:Norman]]