==English==

{{rank|fall|pass|doing|547|note|pay|red|unto}}

===Pronunciation===
*(''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]'') {{IPA|/nəʊt/}}, {{SAMPA|/n@Ut/}}
*(''[[General American|US]]'') {{IPA|/noʊt/}}, {{SAMPA|/noUt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-note.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-əʊt|-əʊt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[mark]] or [[token]] by which a thing may be known; a visible sign; a [[character]]; a distinctive mark or feature; a characteristic quality.
# A mark, or [[sign]], made to call attention, to point out something to notice, or the like; a sign, or token, proving or giving evidence.
# A brief [[remark]]; a marginal comment or explanation; hence, an [[annotation]] on a text or author; a [[comment]]; a critical,  explanatory, or illustrative observation.
# A brief piece of writing intended to assist the memory; a [[memorandum]]; a [[minute]].
# A short informal [[letter]]; a [[billet]].
# A diplomatic [[missive]] or written communication.
# A written or printed paper acknowledging a debt, and promising payment; as, a [[promissory note]]; a note of hand; a negotiable note.
# A piece of paper [[money]]; a [[banknote]].
#''(Music):'' A character, variously formed, to indicate the length of a tone, and variously placed upon the staff to indicate its pitch.
#''(Music):'' A musical sound; a [[tone]]; an utterance; a tune.
#''(Music):'' A [[key]] of the piano or organ.
# [[Observation]]; [[notice]]; [[heed]].
# [[Reputation]]; [[distinction]]; as, a poet of note.

====Translations====
;a visible sign (1)
{{top}}
*Romanian: notă ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A mark, or sign, made to call attention (2)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a marginal comment or explanation (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[huomio]], [[kommentaari]]
*Romanian: notă ''f'', comentariu ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a memorandum (4)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[muistiinpano]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A short informal letter (5)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A diplomatic missive or written communication (6)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[nootti]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A written or printed paper acknowledging a debt, and promising payment (7)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A character indicating the length and pitch of a tone (8)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[nuotti]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A musical sound (9)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[nuotti]]
*Romanian: notă ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A key of the piano or organ (10)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;An observation (11)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[huomio]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Reputation; distinction; as, a poet of note (12)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[메모]], [[쪽지]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[noto]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Notiz]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[nota]] {{f}}, [[billete]] {{m}}

===Verb===
'''note'''  ([[notes]], [[noted]], [[noting]])

[[Transitive]]
#To notice with care; to [[observe]]; to remark; to heed
#To record in writing; to make a memorandum of.
#To [[denote]]; to designate
#To annotate
#To set down in musical characters.

====Translations====
;To notice with care (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[panna merkille]], [[huomata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To record in writing (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[merkitä muistiin]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To denote (3)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To annotate (4)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To set down in musical characters (5)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[메모를 적어 두다]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[notar]]

===Derived terms===
*[[of note]]

===Anagrams===
*[[tone]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Communication]]

[[fr:note]]
[[io:note]]
[[it:note]]
[[hu:note]]
[[no:note]]
[[pl:note]]
[[ru:note]]
[[fi:note]]
[[tl:note]]
[[ta:note]]
[[vi:note]]
[[zh:note]]