==English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''notio'', French ''noscere'' to know: compare French ''notion''. See [[Know]].

===Noun===
Plural: notions

#[[Mental]] [[apprehension]] of whatever may be known or [[imagine]]d; an [[idea]]; a [[conception]]; more properly, a general or universal conception, as distinguishable or definable by [[mark]]s or notæ.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*What hath been generally agreed on, I content myself to assume under the '''notion''' of principles. - Sir [[Isaac Newton]].
#:*Few agree in their '''notions''' about these words. - [[Cheyne]].
#:*That '''notion''' of hunger, cold, sound, color, thought, wish, or fear which is in the mind, is called the "idea" of hunger, cold, etc. - [[Watts]].
#:*'''Notion''', again, signifies either the act of apprehending, signalizing, that is, the remarking or taking note of, the various notes, marks, or characters of an object which its qualities afford, or the result of that act. - [[Hamilton]].
#A [[sentiment]]; an [[opinion]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The extravagant '''notion''' they entertain of themselves. - [[Addison]].
#:*A perverse will easily collects together a system of '''notions''' to justify itself in its obliquity. - J. H. [[Newman]].
#(''[[Obsolete]]'') [[Sense]]; [[mind]]. [[Shakespeare]].
#(''[[Colloquial]]'') An [[invention]]; an [[ingenious]] device; a [[knickknack]]; as, [[Yankee]] notions.
#(''[[Colloquial]]'') [[Inclination]]; [[intention]]; [[disposition]]; as, I have a notion to do it.

[[pl:Notion]]