{{zh-hanzi|[[四]][[面]][[楚]][[歌]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
*Literally: surrounded on four sides by the songs of [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]]
**During the [[w:Chu-Han contention#End_of_the_War|Chu-Han contention]], [[w:Xiang Yu|Xiang Yu]] found himself besieged in the city of Gaixia ([[垓]][[下]]), by the coalition force of Han and the other kings. Jiujiang fell to Ying Bu and Liu Jia the preceding month, and most of the [[w:Kingdom of Chu|Kingdom of Chu]] was occupied by the Han army. When he heard the besieging troops singing songs in the [[w:Chu (state)|Chu]] accent, Xiang Yu knew his kingdom had fallen.

===Idiom===
{{cmn-idiom|t|pin=sì miàn chŭ gē|pint=si4mian4chu3ge1|rs=囗02}}

# facing hostility, difficulty, or frustration on all sides
#* '''2006:''' Dongfang Zaobao staff, ''[http://www.dzsport.cn/html/news/newsDetail.jsp?infoTitle.id=13086 四面楚歌最后辩护 兰迪斯：国际自联逼我上绝路]'' (Making a final defense while beseiged on all sides --- [[w:Floyd Landis|Landis]]: [[w:Union Cycliste Internationale|UCI]] is leaving me with no options)
#*: ''[[当地]][[时间]]8[[月]]7[[日]]，'''四面楚歌'''[[的]][[兰迪斯]][[为]][[自己]][[做]][[出]][[了]][[最后]][[的]][[辩护]]。[[这]][[是]][[他]][[在]]B[[瓶]][[尿样]][[呈]][[阳性]][[结果]][[被]][[披露]][[后]][[接受]][[的]][[第一次]][[采访]]。'' ([[Simplified Chinese|simplified]])
#*: ''[[當地]][[時間]]8[[月]]7[[日]]，'''四面楚歌'''[[的]][[蘭迪斯]][[為]][[自己]][[做]][[出]][[了]][[最後]][[的]][[辯護]]。[[這]][[是]][[他]][[在]]B[[瓶]][[尿樣]][[呈]][[陽性]][[結果]][[被]][[披露]][[後]][[接受]][[的]][[第一次]][[採訪]]。'' ([[Traditional Chinese|traditional]])
#*::[[w:Floyd Landis|Floyd Landis]], '''beseiged on all sides''', put up a final defense on August 7th, local time.  This was his first interview since his B urine sample revealed the presence of [[testosterone]].''

===External links===
*[http://www.google.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E5%9B%9B%E9%9D%A2%E6%A5%9A%E6%AD%8C&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%9B%9B%E9%9D%A2%E6%A5%9A%E6%AD%8C&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]

==Japanese==
{{ja-kanjitab-top}}
! [[四]] || [[面]] || [[楚]] || [[歌]]
{{ja-kanjitab-bottom}}

===Idiom===
{{PAGENAME}} ([[しめんそか]], shimensoka)
# facing hostility, difficulty, or frustration on all sides 
#: ''[[この]][[失敗]][[で]][[私]][[は]][[まったく]][[の]]'''四面楚歌'''[[に]][[追|追い]][[込|込まれてしまった]]。''
#: ''[[As]] [[a]] [[result]] [[of]] [[this]] [[failure]], [[I]] [[am]] [[now]] [[completely]] '''cut off and surrounded'''.''

===External links===
*[http://www.google.co.jp/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=ja&btnG=Google+%E6%A4%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E5%9B%9B%E9%9D%A2%E6%A5%9A%E6%AD%8C&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.jp&as_rights= Google hits: .jp]

[[Category:Japanese idioms|しめんそか]]

[[ja:四面楚歌]]