==Chinese==
===Mandarin===
[[Pinyin]]: huā kāi kān zhé zhí xū zhé

===Etymology===
Literally: If a flower is blooming, and you can pluck it, go ahead and pluck it.

From a poem called "The [[wikipedia:Jade_burial_suit|Golden Dress]]" ([[wikipedia:Jade_burial_suit|金縷衣]]) by Du Qiuniang (杜秋娘).

<center>
Love not your [[wikipedia:Jade_burial_suit|golden dress]], I pray,

More than your youthful golden hours!

'''Gather sweet flowers while you may''',

And not the twig of flowers!
</center>

[[勸]][[君]][[莫]][[惜]][[wikipedia:Jade_burial_suit|金縷衣]]，[[勸]][[君]][[惜]][[取]][[少年]][[時]]，'''花開堪折直須折'''，[[莫]][[待]][[無]][[花]][[空]][[折]][[枝]]

===Proverb===
'''[[花]][[開]][[堪]][[折]][[直]][[須]][[折]]'''


# [[seize the day]]; [[carpe diem]]; [[gather ye rosebuds while ye may]]
#: ''[[這]][[誰]][[也]][[不能]][[怪]]，[[只]][[能]][[怪]][[自己]]，[[輕易]][[不]][[肯]][[愛上]]，[[愛]][[了]][[又]][[不]][[肯]][[輕易]][[放下]]，[[雖]][[說]]'''花開堪折直須折'''，[[莫]][[待]][[無]][[花]][[空]][[折]][[枝]]，[[但是]][[享受]][[著]][[愛情]][[之]][[花]][[的]][[時候]]，[[即使]][[折]][[了]]，[[又]][[怎樣]]？[[不]][[還是]][[一樣]][[結]][[不]][[出]][[婚姻]][[之]][[果]][[嗎]]。''
#: ''No one is to blame but me for this.  I was so casual and unwilling to commit to love.  Then, when I did fall in love, I was unwilling to casually let it go.  People always say things like '''carpe diem''' and '''gather ye rosebuds while ye may'''.  But, when it comes to enjoying the rosebuds of love, even if you gather them, then what?  Isn't the result the same, that we can never be married?''

===Alternate forms===
[[花开堪折直须折]] ([[Simplified Chinese]])

===References===
* ''300 Tang Poems, A New Translation'', Edited by Xu Yuan-zhong, Loh Bei-yei and Wu Juntao, ISBN 957-586-278-3, p. 309
*[http://news.beelink.com.cn/20050429/1837026.shtml Excerpt from "The Jadeite Amulet" (翡翠护身符), a short story by Anne Rose (安妮玫瑰)]

===[[Attestation]]===
*''Less than 2,000 hits may be an indicator that this term is not commonly used.''
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E8%8A%B1%E9%96%8B%E5%A0%AA%E6%8A%98%E7%9B%B4%E9%A0%88%E6%8A%98&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits .cn]
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E8%8A%B1%E9%96%8B%E5%A0%AA%E6%8A%98%E7%9B%B4%E9%A0%88%E6%8A%98&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]

[[Category:zh-tw:Proverbs]]