==Bengali==
===Noun===
{{BNchar|'''কলকাতা'''}} (Kôlkātā)
# [[Calcutta]], [[Kolkata]]
[[Category:bn:Nouns]]
Kolkata (West Bengal, India)  is not just the name of a city. It is an emotion that people associated to Bengal can only understand. It is the city of millions of people living happily together against all odds. Outsiders say that we have pollution problems, excessive traffic, overpopulation and so on but do they really dishearten us? NO! We eat futchka (panipuri) happily standing on the dusty road sides, jump out from running buses easily, fight over East Bengal and Mohon Bagan issues excitedly! We are the people fond of GOSSIPS!! Adda culture has been with us for years. We love friends, we love to talk! We love “bangla” from the very core of our hearts and are “bangali” in our innermost selves,no matter how far away we are from Bengal.This emotion forced us to create this website. THE OLD GOLD CALCUTTA EMOTION. Many of us live in our dream city Kolkata, again many abroad. Here we are trying to create a bridge for all those from New York City to Dhormotala-Academy, from London to Nandan-Nolbon, from Canberra to Coffee House- College Street. Please come, join our dynamic message board to make our virtual city live and full of traffic! Thanks.  (Article adopted from [http://www.calcuttaglobalchat.net Kolkata (Calcutta) Board Home page].

References:
'''[http://www.calcuttaglobalchat.net Kolkata (Calcutta) Board]'''
'''[http://www.calcuttaglobalchat.net/invboard Biggest Bengali community in Kolkata]'''