{{mergeto|Catgirl}}
'''Kemonomimi''' is an [[anime]] and [[manga]] terminology that describes characters that possess animal like features. The characters will be predominately human and any real animal characteristics are minimal, unlike [[kemono]] characters who possess a large percentage of animal parts in ratio with their human parts. Generally kemonomimi characters have ears and a tail which is animal like. Often this is just part of their attire and can be removed at will.

The term is used both in Japan and in some western subcultures, the term is used on the TAOchan/idlechan [[imageboard]] [http://www.teamtao.com/kemonomimi/wakaba.html] for example.

''For a list of kemonomimi characters, anime and manga see [[:Category: Kemonomimi]]''

==List of kemonomimi characters==
* Anya and Lisa (Foxgirl) from ''[[Tsunami Channel]]''
* Arf from ''[[Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha]]'' (doggirl)
* Arisu Arisugawa and the other bunnygirls from ''[[Kagihime Monogatari Eikyuu Alice Rondo]]''
* Bagi from ''[[Bagi, the Monster of Mighty Nature]]'' (1984) (half [[mountain lion]]) (Although many debate that Bagi is a ''[[Furry]]'' instead of a catgirl).
* Foxxy Love from ''[[Drawn Together]]'' (foxgirl). ''Foxxy's ears are only part of her hat, but her tail actually seems to be part of her body.
* Grace from ''[[El Goonish Shive]]'' (shapeshifter with squirrel-girl and cat-girl forms, either with or [http://www.egscomics.com/d/20030904.html without] body fur; also, several other cast members, both female and male, have appeared in non-[[Canon (fiction)|canon]] art as catgirls or bunnygirls, and the character of Ellen uses a catgirl [[Avatar (virtual reality)|avatar]] online)
* Koto (foxgirl) from ''[[YuYu Hakusho]]''
* Meirin and Tamamo-no-Mae (foxgirls) from ''[[Yami to Boshi to Hon no Tabibito]]''
* Ouka (wolfgirl) from ''[[.hack//Legend of the Twilight]]''
* Rami from ''[[Keio Flying Squadron series]]''
* Ran (kyubi foxgirl) from ''[[Perfect Cherry Blossom]]''.
* Sakura(foxgirl) from ''[[Hyper Police]]'' (who is a Kyubi)
* Usada Hikaru from ''[[Di Gi Charat]]''.
* Youko (foxgirl) from ''[[Tactics (anime)|Tactics]]''

==See also==
*[[Catgirl]] (nekomimi)

[[Category: Kemonomimi|*]]