{{zh-forms|[[莫待无花空折枝]]|[[莫]][[待]][[無]][[花]][[空]][[折]][[枝]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
Literally: If a flower is blooming, and you can pluck it, go ahead and pluck it.
* ''c.'' '''8 - 9th century''' 杜秋娘 (Du Qiuniang), ''[[金缕衣]]'' (The [[w:Jade_burial_suit|Golden Dress]])
*: [[勸]][[君]][[莫]][[惜]][[wikipedia:Jade_burial_suit|金縷衣]]，[[勸]][[君]][[惜]][[取]][[少年]][[時]]，'''花開堪折直須折'''，[[莫待無花空折枝]]
*:: ''Love not your [[w:Jade_burial_suit|golden dress]], I pray, More than your youthful golden hours!  Gather sweet flowers while you may, '''And not the twig of flowers!''''' (''300 Tang Poems, A New Translation'', Edited by Xu Yuan-zhong, Loh Bei-yei and Wu Juntao, ISBN 957-586-278-3, p. 309)

===Proverb===
{{cmn-proverb|t|pin=mò dài wú huā kōng zhé zhī|pint=mo4dai4wu2hua1kong1zhe2zhi1|tra=莫待無花空折枝|sim=莫待无花空折枝|rs=艸07}}
# [[seize the day]]; [[carpe diem]].
#* '''2005:''' 安妮玫瑰 (Anne Rose), ''[http://news.beelink.com.cn/20050429/1837026.shtml 翡翠护身符]'' (Excerpt from "The Jadeite Amulet")
#*: ''[[這]][[誰]][[也]][[不能]][[怪]]，[[只]][[能]][[怪]][[自己]]，[[輕易]][[不]][[肯]][[愛上]]，[[愛]][[了]][[又]][[不]][[肯]][[輕易]][[放下]]，[[雖]][[說]][[花開堪折直須折]]，'''莫待無花空折枝'''，[[但是]][[享受]][[著]][[愛情]][[之]][[花]][[的]][[時候]]，[[即使]][[折]][[了]]，[[又]][[怎樣]]？[[不]][[還是]][[一樣]][[結]][[不]][[出]][[婚姻]][[之]][[果]][[嗎]]。''
#*:: ''No one is to blame but me for this.  I was so casual and unwilling to commit to love.  Then, when I did fall in love, I was unwilling to casually let it go.  People always say things like '''carpe diem''' and '''gather ye rosebuds while ye may'''.  But, when it comes to enjoying the rosebuds of love, even if you gather them, then what?  Isn't the result the same, that we can never be married?''

===Synonyms===
*[[花開堪折直須折]]

===External links===
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E8%8A%B1%E9%96%8B%E5%A0%AA%E6%8A%98%E7%9B%B4%E9%A0%88%E6%8A%98&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E8%8A%B1%E9%96%8B%E5%A0%AA%E6%8A%98%E7%9B%B4%E9%A0%88%E6%8A%98&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]