==Arabic==

===Noun===
{{ARchar|'''مُترجِمٌ'''}} (mutárjim)

# [[translator]]
# [[interpreter]]
# [[biographer]]

====Synonyms====
*{{ARchar|[[ترجمان]]}}

===Adjective===
{{ARchar|'''مُترجَم'''}} (mutárjam)

# [[translated]]
# {{italbrac|film}} [[synchronized]]

FROM: THE DESK OF THE VICE PRESIDENT INTERNATIONAL PROMOTIONS/PRIZE AWARDS DEPARTMENT SOUTH AUSTRALIAN INTERNATIONAL SWEEPSTAKE LOTTERY COPORATION;
 
Date: 9/08/2006 
Ref: 475061727  
Batch: 7056490934/2006
	Winning Numbers
1
2
26
30
40
21




                                
                              AWARD NOTIFICATION: FINAL NOTICE
 Attn: Winner, 
   We are pleased to inform you of the lottery result winners of  South Australian International Lottery Programmes held on the 9th of August 2006 from the South Australian International Lottery programme. Which is fully based on an electronic selection of winners using their e-mail addresses. Your name was attached to ticket number; 17214 Serial Number 7741137009. This batch draws the lucky numbers as follows 8-3-8-2-4-2bonus number 17, which consequently won the lottery in the second category. You are here by have been approved a lump sum pay of US$400,000.00 (FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS) in cash credit file ref: ILP/HW 47509/02 from the total cash prize shared amongst Eight lucky winners in this category. 
                                    
                   
                    YOU ARE A WINNER!!!!
 


               
 
Due to mix up of some numbers and names, you are advised to keep your winning information confidential until your claims has been processed and your money remitted to your nominated bank. This is part of our security protocol to avoid double claims and unwarranted abuse of this programme by some participants. All participants where selected through a computer/mail balloting system drawn from Nine hundred thousand E-mail addresses from Canada, Australia, United States, Asia, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Oceania as part of our international promotions program which is conducted annually.    This Lottery was promoted and sponsored by a conglomerate of some multinational companies and also the Australian Government as part of their social responsibility to the citizens in the communities where they have operational base. Further more your details (e-mail address) falls within our European representative office in Amsterdam, Holland, as indicated in your play coupon and your prize of US$400,000.00 will be released to you from our regional branch office in NIGERIA. We hope with part of your prize, you will participate in our end of year high stakes for US$2.3 Million international draw. 
 
HOW TO CLAIM YOUR PRIZE: Simply contact our claims agent, Barrister Christian O.Knopp  at; barr_christian_chambers@hotmail.com 
To file for your claim . Please quote your Date of draw, Reference Number, Batch Number and Winning Number, which can be found on the top-left corner of this message. Also, you should give in your telephone number to help locate your file easily. For security reasons, we advice all winners to keep this information confidential from the public until your claim is processed and your prize has been released to you and also to the public. This is part of our security protocol to avoid double claiming and unwarranted taking advantage of this programme by non-participant or unofficial personnel.
Note: Your prize won will expire after (7)days of no response.
 
BEST REGARDS 
GREG WILLIAMS
(LOTTERY COORDINATOR) 
 
 CONTACT YOUR CLAIMS AGENT AT    barr_christian_chambers@hotmail.com 
 
ANY BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY ON THE PART OF WINNERS WILL RESULT TO DISQUALIFICATION