==Arabic==
===Verb===
'''حَسُنَ''' (ɧásuna) ''v.i., Stem I, 3rd masc. sg. perfective''

# to be [[beautiful]]
# to be [[good]]

===Verb===
'''حَسَّنَ''' (ɧássana) ''v.t., Stem II, 3rd masc. sg. perfective''

# to [[improve]], to [[amend]], to [[perfect]], to [[ameliorate]], to [[better]], to [[polish]], to [[prettify]]

===Verb===
'''أحْسَنَ''' (’aɧsána) ''v.i., Stem IV, 3rd masc. sg. perfective''

# to make good
# to do well
# to know how to use, to be able to use, to know

===Verb===
'''تَحَسَّنَ''' (taɧássana) ''v.i., Stem V, 3rd masc. sg. perfective''

# to [[ameliorate]]
# to [[reform]]

===Verb===
'''اِسْتَحْسَنَ''' (istáɧsana) ''v.t., Stem X, 3rd masc. sg. perfective''

# to think good, to approve

----

===Noun===
'''حُسْنٌ''' (ɧúsnun, ''m''), '''حُسْنَاء''' (ɧusná’, ''f'')

# [[goodness]]
# [[prettiness]], [[beauty]], [[loveliness]]


'''حَسَنَة''' (ɧásanah, ''f'')

# [[advantage]]


'''تَحْسِين''' (taɧsíin, ''m'')

# [[amelioration]], [[amendment]], [[betterment]], [[improvement]], [[perfection]]

----

===Adjective===
'''حَسَن''' (ɧásan, ''m''), '''حَسَنَة''' (ɧásanah, ''f, pl'')

# [[good]], [[fine]], [[well]]
# [[pretty]], [[beautiful]], [[lovely]], [[handsome]]
# [[okay]]!


'''تَحْسِينِي''' (taɧsíini, ''m''), '''تَحْسِينِيَّة''' (taɧsiníyyah, ''f, pl'')

# [[amendatory]]

----

===Elative===
'''أحْسَنُ''' (’áɧsan, ''invariable'')

# [[better]], [[finer]]
# [[prettier]], [[more beautiful]], [[lovelier]], [[more handsome]]


'''الأحْسَنُ''' (al-’áɧsan, ''m''), '''الحُسْنَى''' (al-ɧúsna, ''f''), '''الحُسَنٌ''' (al-ɧúsanun, ''pl'')

# [[best]], [[finest]]
# [[prettiest]], [[most beautiful]], [[loveliest]], [[handsomest]]

----

===Adverb===
'''حَسَنًا''' (ɧásanan)

# [[well]], [[fine]], [[okay]]