==English==
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
===Etymology 1===
Middle English noun ''wagge'', feminine root of Old English ''waian,'' noun, (Middle English noun ''wae'') to oscillate, shake
 
The verb may be regarded as an [[iterative]] or emphatic form of ''waian'' [[waw]], verb, which is often nearly synonymous; it was used, e.g., of a loose tooth. Parallel formations from the same root are the [[Old Norse]] ''vagga'' femimine, cradle (Swedish ''vagga,'' Dutch ''vugge''), Swedish ''vagga'' to rock a cradle, early modern German ''waggen'' (modern High German dialect ''wacken'') to waver, totter. Cf. [[waggle]], verb
==== Verb ====
{{en-verb|wag|wags|wagged|wagging}}
# To [[swing]] from side to side, especially of an [[animal]]'s [[tail]]
====See also====
*[[waggle]] ''(frequentative)''
*[[wiggle]]

===Etymology 2===
====Noun====
{{en-noun|wag|wags}}
# [[witty]] person

===Etymology 3===
<!--Someone please verify this word-->
Corruption of the Latin ''[[aeger]]'' ("ill").
====Adjective====
'''wag'''
# [[pretending]] to be [[ill]]. Also 'wagging it large'

====Verb====
{{en-verb|wag|wags|wagged|wagging}}
# (''British slang'') To [[pretend]] to be [[ill]] in order to [[shirk]] a [[responsibility]], usually school lessons
# (''slang'') To not go to school, either for a class or classes or the entire school day;<sup>1</sup> <span style="font-variant:small-caps;text-transform:lowercase">play the wag; hop the wag; wag it</span>.<sup>2</sup>
:*"My misfortunes all began in ''wagging,'' Sir; but what could I do, exceptin' ''wag''?" "Excepting what?" said Mr. Carker. "''Wag,'' Sir. ''Wagging'' from school." "Do you mean pretending to go there, and not going?" said Mr. Carker. "Yes, Sir, that's ''wagging,'' Sir." <br>-- Charles Dickens, ''Dombey and Son,'' xxii, (1848)
:*They had "''wagged'' it" from school, as they termed it, which..meant truancy in all its forms. -- William Sylvester Walker, ''In the Blood,''<br>(1901) i. 13

====References====
#''The Oxford English Dictionary,'' (1989) <http://dictionary.oed.com/cgi/login?uri=%2Fentrance.dtl> Accessed 23 Feb. 2006.
#Jonathon Green, "wag," ''The Cassell Dictionary of Slang,'' (1998) p. 1257.

====See also====
*[[skivitis]]

[[fr:wag]]