==English==

===Etymology===
From [[weiven]] to abandon

===Pronunciation===
*wāv, /weɪv/, /<tt>weIv</tt>/

====Homophones====
*[[wave]]

====Rhymes====
*[[Rhymes:English:-e?v|Rhymes: -e?v]]

===Noun===
'''waive''' (plural: [[waives]])

# {{obsolete}} A waif; a castaway. - [[w:John Donne|John Donne]]
# {{UK}} {{obsolete}} {{law}} A woman put out of the protection of the law.

===Transitive verb=== 
'''to waive''' (waives, waived, waiving)

# To relinquish; to give up claim to; not to insist on or claim; to refuse; to forego.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He '''waiveth''' milk, and flesh, and all. - [[w:Geoffrey Chaucer|Geoffrey Chaucer]]
#:*We absolutely do renounce or '''waive''' our own opinions, absolutely yielding to the direction of others. - [[w:Barrow|Barrow]]
# To throw away; to cast off; to reject; to desert.
# {{law}} To throw away; to relinquish voluntarily, as a right which one may enforce if he chooses.
# {{UK}} {{obsolete}} {{law}} To desert; to abandon. - [[w:Burrill|Burrill]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''to waive''' (waives, waived, waiving)

# {{obsolete}} To turn aside; to recede.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*To '''waive''' from the word of Solomon. - Geoffrey Chaucer

===Derived terms===
*[[waivable]]

===Usage note===
The term was applied to a woman, in the same sense as outlaw to a man.  A woman could not be outlawed, in the proper sense of the word, because, according to Bracton, she was never in law, that is, in a frankpledge or decennary; but she might be waived, and held as abandoned. --Burrill.

[[fr:waive]]
[[zh:waive]]