== English ==
=== Intransitive verb ===
'''to walk''' (walking, walked)

#To move upon two feet by alternately setting each foot forward, with at least one foot on the ground at all times.  Compare '''[[run]]'''.
#To move something by shifting between two positions, as if it were walking.
#:''I carefully walked the ladder along the wall.''
#(''law; colloquial'') To go free, particularly when actually guilty.
#:''If you can't present a better case, that robber is going to walk.''
#(''colloquial'') Of an object, to be stolen.
#:''If you leave your wallet lying around, it's going to walk.''

====Synonyms====

*(''move upon two feet''): [[ambulate]] (''technical'')
*(''colloquial: go free''): be [[acquit]]ted, [[get off]], [[go free]]
*(''be stolen''): be/get [[steal|stolen]], be/get [[nick]]ed (''British''), be/get [[pinch]]ed (''British'')

====Translations====

'''move upon two feet'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[marcher#French|marcher]]
*Italian: [[camminare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''move something by shifting between two positions'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''law: colloquial: to go free'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''colloquial: be stolen'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering may be unreliable.

*Danish: [[gå]] (1); [[slippe fri]] (3)
*Dutch: [[lopen]] (1), [[wandelen]] (1), [[verplaatsen]] (2)
*Finnish: [[kävellä]] (1), [[liikuttaa]] (2)
*[[Ga]]: [[nyiemo]]
*German: [[gehen]], [[wandern]], [[spazieren gehen]]
*Hebrew: [[הלך|הָלַךְ]], (lalechet)
*Indonesian: [[jalan|berjalan]]
*Korean: [[걷다]] (geod-da) (1), [[가다]] (ga-da) (1), [[움직이다]] (um-jig-i-da) (2)
*[[Kyerepon]]: [[nna]]
*Latin: [[ambulo]] (1)
*Spanish: [[caminar]], [[andar]]
*[[Twi]]: [[nantew]]
*Vietnamese: [[Đi bộ|đi bộ]] (1), [[mang#Vietnamese|mang]] (2), [[dẫn|dẫn ''direct object'' đi]] (2, ''when the direct object is a person or an animal''), [[bỏ|bỏ đi]] (3)

=== Transitive verb ===
'''to walk''' (walking, walked)

#To travel (a distance) by walking.
#:''I walk two miles to school every day.''
#:''The museum's not far from here - you can walk it.''
#To take for a walk.
#:''I walk the dog every morning''
#(''[[baseball]]'') To allow a batter to reach base by pitching four balls.

====Translations====

'''travel (a distance) by walking'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[marcher#French|marcher]]
*Italian: [[camminare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''take for a walk'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''baseball: allow a batter to reach base by pitching four balls'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering may be unreliable.

*Danish: [[gå tur med]] (2)
*Dutch: [[uitlaten]] (2)
*Finnish: [[kävelyttää]] (2)
*Spanish: [[pasear]] (2)
*Vietnamese: [[dẫn]] + ''direct object'' + [[Đi|đi]] [[từng]] [[bước]] [[một]] (2; <!--this belongs on the corresponding Vietnamese page literally "to lead ... every one step"-->)

=== Noun ===
'''walk''' (''plural'' '''walks''')

#A trip made by walking.
#:''I take a walk every morning''
#A distance walked.
#:''It's a long walk from my house to the library''
#A manner of walking.
#:''The Ministry of Silly Walks is underfunded this year''
#A path, sidewalk/pavement or other maintained place on which to walk.  Compare '''[[trail]]'''.
#(''[[baseball]]'') An instance of walking a batter.
#:''The pitcher now has two walks in this inning alone''

====Synonyms====

*(''trip made by walking''): [[stroll]]
*(''distance walked''): [[hike]] (''if long''), [[trek]] (''if long'')
*(''manner of walking''): [[gait]]
*(''path''): [[path]], [[pavement]] (''British''), [[sidewalk]] (''US'')

====Translations====

'''trip made by walking'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''distance walked'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''manner of walking'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''path on which to walk'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''baseball: instance of walking a batter'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Danish: [[gåtur]] (1); [[gang]] (2); [[fodsti]] (3)
*Dutch: [[wandeling]] (1), [[loopje]] (2), [[pad]] (3)
*Finnish: [[kävely]] (1, 2), [[kävelyretki]] (1), [[kävelyalue]] (3), [[kävelykatu]] (3)
*Hebrew: [[ ]] (halicha)
*Latin: [[ambulatio]] (1, 3)
*Spanish: [[paseo]] (1)
*Vietnamese: [[Đường|đường]] [[Đi|đi]] (1, 3), [[cách]] [[bước]] đi (2)

===Derived terms===
*[[race walk]]
*[[sidewalk]]
*[[sponsored walk]]
*[[walkathon]]
*[[walker]]
*[[walkie-talkie]]
*[[Walkman]]&reg;
*[[walkover]]
*[[walk tall]]
*[[walk the walk]]