==English==

{{rank|fell|different|care|389|war|short|able|five}}

===Etymology===
Anglo-Norman ''werre'' from Old Northern French ''werre'', a variant of Old French ''[[guerre]]'', from Old Franconian ''[[werra]]'', ultimately from Indo-European ''*werza-'', meaning "[[mixture]]" or "[[confusion]]."

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/woʊr/, /wɔː(r)/}}
*{{SAMPA|/wO:(r)/}}
*{{audio|en-us-war.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)|-ɔː(r)]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A conflict involving the organized use of arms and physical force between countries or other large-scale armed groups. The warring parties hold territory, which they can win or lose; and each has a leading person or organization which can surrender, or collapse, thus ending the war.
# {{cattag|civil war}} An armed conflict between two or more different factions within the same country.
# {{cattag|rhetorical}} A campaign against something. E.g., the ''war on drugs'' is a campaign against the use of narcotic drugs; the ''war on terror'' is a campaign against terrorist crime.

====Antonyms====
*[[peace]]

====Related terms====
{{top2}}
*[[civil war]]
*[[cold war]]
*[[go to war]]
*[[prisoner of war]], [[P.O.W.]] or [[POW]]
*[[war between the sexes]], etc. Jocular.
*[[war bonnet]]
*[[war bride]]
*[[war chest]]
*[[war crime]]
*[[war criminal]]
*[[war cry]]
*[[war game]]
*[[war paint]] or [[warpaint]]
{{mid2}}
*[[war party]]
*[[war room]]
*[[war torn]]
*[[war zone]]
*[[warfare]]
*[[warhead]]
*[[warlord]]
*[[warmonger]]
*[[warpath]]
*[[warring]]
*[[warrior]]
*[[wartime]]
*[[world war]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[luftë]] {{f}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[حرب]]}} (ħarb) {{m}}
*Belarusian [[вайна]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[brezel]] {{m}}
*Catalan: [[guerra]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[战争]], [[戰爭]] (zhànzhèng)
*[[Chiricahua]]: [[dishbá]] ''(I start off to war)''
*Croatian: [[rat]] {{m}}
*Czech: [[válka]] {{f}}, [[vojna]] {{f}} (archaic)
<!-- '''válka dělá z lidi blby''' ''war turns people into morons&mdash;Czech proverb'' ... put this on the [[válka]] page -->
*Danish: [[krig]]
*Dutch: [[oorlog]] {{m}}
*Esperanto: [[milito]]
*Estonian: [[sõda]]
*Finnish: [[sota]]
*French: [[guerre]] {{f}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[oarloch]], [[kriich]]
*German: [[Krieg]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[πόλεμος]] (pólemos) {{m}}
*[[Guarani]]: [[ñorairõ]]
*Hebrew: [[מלחמה]] (milkhama) {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[háború]]
*Icelandic: [[stríð]] {{n}} 
*[[Ido]]: [[milito]]
*Indonesian: [[perang]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[guerra]], [[bello]]
*[[Irish]]: [[cogadh]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[guerra]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[戦]] ([[いくさ]], ikusa), [[戦争]] ([[せんそう]], sensō)
*[[Jèrriais]]: [[dgèrre]] {{f}}
*Korean: [[전쟁]] [戰爭] (jeonjaeng)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[ceng]] {{f}}, [[şerr]] {{m}}
*Latin: [[bellum]] {{n}}
*Latvian: [[karš]] {{m}} (sometimes [[kaŗš]])
*[[Northern Sami]]: [[soahti]]
*Norwegian: [[krig]] {{m}}
*Old English: [[wig#Old English|wīġ]] {{n}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[جنگ]]}} (jang)
*Polish: [[wojna]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[guerra]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[război]] {{n}}, [[răzbel]] {{n}} ''(archaic)''
*Russian: [[война]] (vojná) {{f}}
*Slovak: [[vojna#Slovak|vojna]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[vojna]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[guerra]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[krig]] {{n}} (1,3), [[inbördeskrig]] (2) {{n}}
*Tagalog: [[gera]], [[gyera]], [[digmaan]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[యుద్ధం]] (yuddhaM) (1,3); [[అంతర్యుద్ధం]] (aMtaryuddhaM) (2)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[สงคราม]]}} (sŏng-kraam)
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[marana]]
*Turkish: [[savaş]], [[muharebe]] (''obsolete''), [[harp]] (''obsolete''), [[cenk]] (''obsolete'')
*Yiddish: [[מלחמה]] (milkhome), [[קריג]] (krig)
{{bottom}}

====Usage notes====
The use of ''war'' in the rhetorical sense can lead to possibly dangerous changes in attitude. [[Crime]] is normally controlled by using [[civilian]] forces&mdash;the [[police]]&mdash;in a restrained manner, with minimal effect on uninvolved parties. True war is waged by using unrestricted [[lethal force]] on an [[enemy]], ideally without deliberate attack on uninvolved [[civilian]] parties, but with their safety secondary to defeating enemy forces. If a campaign against some form of crime is described verbally as a war, the use of [[weapon]]s and [[tactics]] totally inappropriate for fighting crime, and harm to innocent parties, becomes more acceptable.

====See also====
*[[battle]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|war|r|ed}}

#To engage in conflict with a foe.
#:''His emotions '''war''' with his intellect, making him conflicted.''

===Anagrams===
*[[raw]]

----

==Breton==

===Preposition===
'''war'''

# [[on]]

[[Category:Breton prepositions]]

----

==German==

===Verb form===
'''war'''
# past of [[sein]], was


----

==Kurdish==

===Noun===
'''war'''

# [[place]]

----

==Old High German==
===Adjective===
'''wār'''

# [[true]]

[[Category:Old High German adjectives]]
[[Category:Kurdish language]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:French derivations]]
[[Category:German verb forms]]

[[de:war]]
[[et:war]]
[[fa:war]]
[[fr:war]]
[[ko:war]]
[[hy:war]]
[[io:war]]
[[it:war]]
[[ku:war]]
[[hu:war]]
[[ja:war]]
[[pl:war]]
[[pt:war]]
[[ru:war]]
[[sr:war]]
[[fi:war]]
[[sv:war]]
[[ta:war]]
[[vi:war]]
[[tr:war]]
[[zh:war]]