{{see|Ward}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-ward.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{IPA|/wɔ:d/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)d|-ɔː(r)d]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[weard]], from Germanic ''*waroþo-'', an extension of a verb stem ''*warō-'' ‘be on guard’ (English [[ware]]).  Cognate with German [[Warte]] ‘watchtower’; English [[guard]] is a parallel form which came via Old French.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Protection, defence.
## The action of a [[watchman]]; monitoring, surveillance (''usually in phrases [[keep ward]] etc.'').
## [[guardianship|Guardianship]], especially of a [[child]] or [[prisoner]].
## (''Scots Law, historic'') Land [[tenure]] through military service.
## (''fencing'') A guarding or defensive motion or position.
# A protected place.
## ''(archaic)'' An area of a [[castle]], corresponding to a circuit of the [[wall]]s.
## A section or subdivision of a [[prison]].
## An administrative division of a borough, city or council.
##:''On our last visit to Tokyo, we went to Chiyoda '''ward''' and visited the Emperor's palace.''
## {{Mormon}} A subdivision of the [[LDS]] Church, smaller than a [[stake]], but larger than a [[branch]].
## A [[room]] in a hospital where patients reside.
# A person under guardianship.
## A [[minor]] looked after by a guardian.
##:''After the trial, little Robert was declared a ward of the state.''
## ''(obsolete)'' An underage [[orphan]].
# An object used for guarding.
## The [[ridge]]s on the inside of a [[lock]], or the [[incision]]s on a [[key]].
##:*'''1893''': With the help of a wire, however, they forced round the key.  Even without the lens you will perceive, by the scratches on this '''ward''', where the pressure was applied. — Arthur Conan Doyle, ‘The Resident Patient’ (Norton 2005, p.628)

====Translations====
'''action of a watchman'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[garde]]
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''guardianship'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
*German: [[Vormundschaft]]
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
*Spanish: [[tutela]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''fencing term'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''area of a castle'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''section of a prison'''
{{top}}
*French: [[quartier]] ''m''
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''administrative subdivision of cities'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[arrondissement]] {{m}} ?
*German: [[Stadtbezirk]] ''m''
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
*Japanese: -[[区]] (-く, -ku) 
*Polish: [[okręg]] ''m'', [[dzielnica]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''Mormonism: subdivision of church'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
* Czech: [[sbor]]
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
* Russian: [[большой приход]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''hospital room'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[病房]] (bìngfáng)
*French: [[salle]] ''f''
*German: [[Station]] ''f''
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
*Japanese: [[病室]](びょうしつ, byoushitsu)
*Korean: [[병동]] ([[病棟]], byeongdong)
*Polish: [[oddział]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[sala]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''minor looked after by a guardian'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[pupille]] ''m/f''
*German: [[Mündel]] ''n''
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
*Spanish: [[pupilo]]
{{bottom}}

'''on a lock or key'''
{{top}}
<!--Languages from A to I go here-->
*German: [[Einschnitt]] ''m'' (of key), [[Aussparung]] ''f'' (of lock)
{{mid}}
<!--Languages from J to Z go here-->
*Spanish: [[guarda]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[weardian]].  Cognate with German [[warten]] ‘look after’.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To keep in safety; to watch; to guard; formerly, in a specific sense, to guard during the day time.
# {{transitive}} To defend; to protect.
# {{transitive}} To fend off; to repel; to turn aside, as anything mischievous that approaches; -- usually followed by ''[[off]]''.
# {{intransitive}} To be vigilant; to keep guard.
# {{intransitive}} To act on the defensive with a weapon.

====Synonyms====
*(''to fend off''): [[ward off]]

===Anagrams===
*[[draw]]

[[Category:Rooms]]

[[fr:ward]]
[[io:ward]]
[[hu:ward]]
[[ru:ward]]
[[vi:ward]]
[[zh:ward]]