==English==

===Etymology===
From Old North French ''wast(e)'' < Latin ''[[vastum]]''

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: wāst
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /weɪst/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /<tt>weIst</tt>/

====Homophones====
*[[waist]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-both}}

#A waste [[land]]; an [[unhabited]] [[desolate]] [[region]]; a [[wilderness]].
#A place that has been [[lay waste|laid waste]] or [[destroy]]ed.
#A large [[tract]] of [[uncultivated]] land.
#A vaste [[expanse]] of water.
#A [[disuse]]d [[mine]] or part of one.
#The action or progress of wasting; [[extravagant]] consumption or [[ineffectual]] use.
#:''That was a waste of time''
#:''Her life seemed a waste''
#Large [[abundance]] of something, especially without it being used.
#Gradual [[loss]] or [[decay]].
#A decaying of the body by disease.
#''(rare)'' [[Destruction]] or [[devastation]] caused by [[war]] or [[natural disaster]]s.
#[[Excess]] of material, useless [[by-product]]s or [[damaged]], [[unsaleable]] [[product]]s; [[garbage]]; [[rubbish]].
#[[Excrement]] (animal waste, human waste).

====Translations====
'''desolate place'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[woestenij]]
{{bottom}}

'''loss, ineffective use'''
{{top}}
*Dutch:  [[verkwisting]], [[verspilling]] 
*Finnish: [[hukka]], [[jätös]]
{{bottom}}

'''decay'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[wegkwijning]], [[verval]]
{{bottom}}

'''useless products, garbage'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afval]], [[rommel]], [[vuil]]
*Finnish: [[jäte]], [[jätös]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[déchets]] ''m, pl'' (1), [[gaspillage]] {{f}} (2)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Abfall]] ''m'' (1), [[Verschwendung]] {{f}} (1)
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: disip-ado
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[sottoprodotto]] (1)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[無駄]], [[無駄使い]], [[浪費]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[dejeto]] ''m'', [[lixo]] ''m'', [[sucata]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[desechos]] ''m, pl'' (1), [[detrito]] ''m'' (1), [[basura]] {{f}} (1)

====Derived terms====
*[[wasteful]]
*[[wasteless]]
*[[wasty]]

====Related terms====
*[[cotton waste]]
*[[industrial waste]]
*[[nuclear waste]]
*[[radioactive waste]]
*[[rock waste]]
*[[silk waste]]
*[[toxic waste]]
*[[trade waste]]

===Adjective===
'''waste'''
#[[Uncultivated]] or [[unhabited]]; [[barren]]; [[desert]].
#[[Reject]]ed as being [[defective]]; [[eliminate]]d as being [[worthless]]; produced in [[excess]].
#[[Superfluous]]; [[needless]].

====Translations====
'''barren'''
*Dutch: [[woest]], [[braakliggend]]

'''excess'''
*Dutch: [[overtollig]]

====Derived terms====
*[[go to waste]]
*[[lay waste]]
*[[lie waste]]
*[[run to waste]]
*[[wasteland]]
*[[wasteness]]
*[[wastrife]]

===Verb===
{{conj|waste|wastes|wasted|wasted|wasting}}
#''(transitive)'' [[Devastate]] or [[destroy]].
#''(transitive)'' [[Use up]], [[diminish]], [[reduce]] by gradual loss; [[decay]]; [[emaciate]].
#:''After he lost hope, he wasted away.''
#''(transitive)'' [[Squander]] money or resources [[uselessly]]; [[spend]] time [[idly]].
#: ''We wasted millions of dollars and several years on that project''
#''(transitive) (slang)'' [[Kill]]; [[murder]].
#''(intransitive)'' Gradually lose [[weight]] or [[weaken]].

====Translations====
'''to destroy'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[verwoesten]]
{{bottom}}

'''to decay'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[doen]] [[wegkwijnen]]
*Finnish: [[hukata]], [[tuhlata]]
{{bottom}}

'''to squander'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[verspillen]], [[verkwisten]], [[vermorsen]], [[verdoen]], [[verklungelen]], 
*Finnish: [[hukata]], [[tuhlata]]
{{bottom}}

'''to kill'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[koud maken]]
*Finnish: [[kylvää]] [[tuho]]a, [[tuhota]]
{{bottom}}

'''to weaken'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[wegkwijnen]], [[verzwakken]]
*Finnish: [[kuihtua]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[dépérir]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[dissiper]], [[gaspiller]], [[prodiguer]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[deperisar]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[desperdiçar]]

====Derived terms====
*[[wasted]]
*[[waster]]
*[[wastingly]]
*[[wastery]]
*[[wastethrift]]
*[[wastrel]]
*[[wasty]]


[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:waste]]
[[it:waste]]
[[fi:waste]]