{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|wāv}}, {{IPA|/weɪv/}}, {{SAMPA|/weIv/}}
*:'''Homophones''': [[waive]]
*: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪv|Rhymes: -eɪv]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[wafian]], from Proto-Germanic ''*wab-'', from Proto-Indo-European base ''*webh-'' "to move to and fro, to weave".

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|wav|e}}

# {{intransitive}} To move [[back]] and [[forth]] [[repeatedly]].
#: ''The flag '''waved''' in the gentle breeze.''
# {{intransitive}} To wave one’s [[hand]] in greeting or departure.
#: ''I '''waved''' goodbye from across the room.''
# {{intransitive}} To have an [[undulating]] or [[wavy]] form.
# {{intransitive}} {{baseball}} To swing and miss at a pitch.
#: ''Jones '''waves''' at strike one.''
# {{transitive}} To [[cause]] to move back and forth repeatedly.
#: ''The starter '''waved''' the flag to begin the race.''
# {{transitive}} To [[signal]] someone or something with a waving movement.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[waver]]

=====Translations=====
'''move back and forth repeatedly''''
*French: [[flotter]] (flag)
*German: [[wedeln]], [[schwenken]]

'''wave one’s hand'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[رفرف]]}} (rafráfa)
*Chinese: [[招手]] (zhāoshǒu)
*Dutch: [[zwaaien]]
*French: [[saluer]]
*German: [[winken]]
*Italian: [[agitare]] la mano
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[振り動かす]] (ふりうごかす, furi ugokasu)
*Korean: [[흔들다]] (heundeulda)
*Portuguese: [[acenar]] com a mão
*Russian: [[махать]] (maχát’)
*Spanish: hacer [[señal]]
*Swedish: [[vinka]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఊపు]] (oopu)
{{bottom}}

'''have an undulating or wavy form'''
*French: [[onduler]]

===Etymology 2===
An alteration of [[waw]], under influence of the verb; some senses developed directly from the verb.

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[moving]] [[disturbance]] in the level of a body of [[water]].
#: ''The '''wave''' traveled from the center of the lake before breaking on the shore.''
# {{physics}} A moving disturbance in the [[energy]] [[level]] of a [[field]].
#: ''Gravity '''waves''', while [[predicted]] by [[theory]] for decades, have been notoriously difficult to detect.''
# A shape which alternately curves in opposite directions.
#: ''Her hair had a nice '''wave''' to it.''
# A suddenly unusually large amount of something that is temporarily experienced.
#: ''A '''wave''' of shoppers [[stampede]]d through the door when the store opened for its Christmas discount special.''
#: ''A '''wave''' of retirees began moving to the coastal area.''
#: ''A '''wave''' of emotion overcame her when she thought about her son who was killed in battle.''
# A sideway movement of the hand(s).
#: ''With a '''wave''' of the hand.''

=====Derived terms=====
*[[Elliott wave theory]]
*[[wavelength]]
*[[waveband]]
*[[wavy]]
*[[wavelet]]
*[[make waves]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[波浪]]
*Czech: [[vlna]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[golf]] {{m}}
*Estonian: [[laine]]
*Finnish: [[aalto]] (1-4)
*French: [[vague]] {{f}} (1,4), onde {{f}} (2), ondulation(s) {{f}} (3)
*German: [[Welle]] {{f}} (1-4)
*Greek: [[κύμα]] {{n}}
*Hungarian: [[hullám]]
*Irish: [[tonn]] {{f}} (1,4), (''of a hand'') [[croitheadh]] {{m}}, (''hair'') [[casadh]] {{m}} (3)
*Italian: [[onda]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[波]] (namí)
*Korean: [[파도]] (pado)
*Kurdish:
: [[Kurmanji]]: [[pêl]], [[sîpel]] {{f}}
: [[Sorani]]: [[şepoł]]
: [[Zazaki]]: [[pêl]]
*Norwegian: [[bølge]]
*Old English: [[yþ|ȳþ]] (1-3), [[wæg|wǣġ]] (1-3)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[موج]]}} (mowj)
*Portuguese: [[onda]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[волна]] (volná) {{f}}
*[[Sanskrit]]: [[तरंग]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[onda]] {{f}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[అల]] (ala) (1), [[తరంగం]] (taraMgaM) (2), [[కెరటం]] (keraTaM) (4)
*Turkish: [[dalga]]
*Tuvaluan: [[ngalu]]
{{bottom}}


[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:wave]]
[[io:wave]]
[[it:wave]]
[[hu:wave]]
[[ja:wave]]
[[fi:wave]]
[[ta:wave]]
[[zh:wave]]