==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /'/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /'wεdəd/

===Adjective===
'''wedded'''

# ''(of a couple):'' joined in [[marriage]].

===Verb===
'''wedded'''

# past tense of to [[wed]].

===Quotations===
* '''[15th c.], 1997,''' [[w:Thomas Malory|Thomas Malory]], Eugène Vinaver ed.
*: And kynge Lott of Lowthean and of Orkenay thenne '''wedded''' Margawse that was Gaweyns moder, and kynge Nentres of the land of Garlot '''wedded''' Elayne: al this was done at the request of kynge Uther.
* '''[1911] 1990,''' T. W. Rolleston, ''Celtic Myths and Legends'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=OcbAOkX1uRYC&pg=PA181&lpg=PA181&sig=55jgL7lmh-RoSHLCFwUE9Ak9TTM]
*: Ross the Red, it is said, '''wedded''' a Danaan woman, Maga, daughter of Angus Ōg.
* '''[1976] 2004,''' J. E. A. Tyler, ''The Complete Tolkien Companion'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=lII4lt_MAmQC&pg=PA328&lpg=PA328&sig=1Xrj5Ba8WNVeXzclh60oQtpM3lE]
*: Húrin '''wedded''' Morwen Eledhwen of the First House — and ''their'' children were Túrin and Nienor.

===Translations===
*Dutch: [[huwde]], [[huwden]]

===Verb===
'''wedded'''

# past participle of to [[wed]]

===Quotations===
* '''[a. 1911] 1986,''' Howard Pyle, ''The Story of King Arthur and His Knights'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=vALiAcRyBcwC&pg=PA380&lpg=PA380&sig=hOThAAm-raql5gJhpMZzbU1P-T8]
*: But when he shall have '''wedded''' himself unto that duty so that he hath made it one with him as a bridegroom maketh himself one with his bride, then doth that duty become of a sudden very beautiful unto him and unto others.
* '''1986,''' St. John Chrysostom, ''On Marriage and Family Life,'' Catherine P. Roth & David Anderson tr. [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=hbMtKk-kiLMC&pg=PA112&lpg=PA112&sig=GVHA-ol3fLhiSzro9HX7X4Rs4hE]
*: She was '''wedded''' wearing no golden robe but chastity, piety, generosity, and every other virtue.
* '''2004''' Maureen O’Hara, ''’Tis Herself'' [http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&id=_xBMo-UNCgMC&pg=PA36&lpg=PA36&sig=NfvJnZ59cPHM1_x5_61cDx1BVjg]
*:“Who would have thought she’d already been '''wedded''' and bedded?”

===Translations===
*Dutch: [[gehuwd]]