==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[weod|wēod]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/wi:d/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːd|-iːd]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

#{{countable}} Any [[plant]] growing in [[cultivated]] ground to the injury of the [[crop]] or desired vegetation, or to the disfigurement of the place; an unsightly, useless, or injurious plant.
#{{cattag|countable|informal}} A [[puny]] person; one who has with little physical strength.
#{{uncountable}} [[Tobacco]].
#{{countable}} A [[cigar]].
#{{cattag|uncountable|slang}} [[Marijuana]].
#{{countable}} A sudden illness or [[relapse]], often attended with fever, which attacks women in childbed.
#{{uncountable}} Underbrush; low shrubs.
#(''countable''; ''figuratively'') Something unprofitable or troublesome; anything useless.
#{{countable}} An animal unfit to breed from.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[goutweed]]
*[[knapweed]]
*[[knotweed]]
*[[milkweed]]
*[[pigweed]]
*[[ragweed]]
*[[tumbleweed]]

=====Translations=====
;unwanted plant
{{top}}
*French: [[mauvaise herbe]] {{f}}
*German: [[Unkraut]] {{n}}
*Ido: [[mala herbo]]
*Italian: [[erbaccia]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: {{trad|ku|ade}}
*Polish: [[chwast]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[mala hierba]]
*Swedish: [[ogräs]]
*Telugu: [[కలుపు]] (kalupu)
{{bottom}}

;informal (a puny person)
<!--add INFORMAL translations to this table, where these exist-->
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;tobacco
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a cigar
{{top}}
*German: [[Glimmstängel]] {{m}}, coll: [[Kippe]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;slang (marijuana)
<!--add SLANG translations to this table, where these exist-->
{{top}}
*French: [[herbe]] {{f}}, [[marie-jeanne]] {{f}}
*German: [[Gras]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;sudden illness or relapse, often attended with fever, which attacks women in childbed
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;underbrush; low shrubs
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;figuratively: something unprofitable or troublesome; anything useless
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;an animal unfit to breed from
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[zioło]] ''n'' (11)

====See also====
*[[grow like a weed]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[wēodian]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

#to remove weeds (unwanted vegetation) from (a cultivated area)
#:''I '''weeded''' my flower bed.''
<!--move to "weed out"
#to [[cull]] or sort out unneccessary materials
#:''I '''weeded''' some of the extra stuff out of my closet.''-->

=====Derived terms=====
*[[weed out]]

=====Translations=====
'''remove weeds from'''
{{top}}
*German: [[jäten]]
{{mid}}
*CJKV Characters: [[秐]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Old English ''[[wæd|wǣd]]'', from Germanic.  Compare Dutch ''[[lijnwaad]]'', ''[[gewaad]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{archaic}} A [[garment]] or piece of clothing.
# {{archaic}} Clothing collectively; [[clothes]], [[dress]].
#:*'''1819''': These two dignified persons were followed by their respective attendants, and at a more humble distance by their guide, whose figure had nothing more remarkable than it derived from the usual '''weeds''' of a pilgrim. — Walter Scott, ''Ivanhoe''

===Etymology 4===
From the verb ''[[wee]]''.

====Verb====
'''weed'''

# {{past of|wee}}

[[category:English nouns]]
[[category:English simple past forms]]
[[category:English past participles]]
[[category:Recreational drugs]]

[[de:weed]]
[[fr:weed]]
[[io:weed]]
[[it:weed]]
[[hu:weed]]
[[nl:weed]]
[[fi:weed]]
[[ta:weed]]
[[zh:weed]]