==English==

===Etymology===
{{ME.}} ''hwippen'' or ''whippen''. Middle low German and Middle Dutch ''wippen'', meaning to move quickly, Possibly from a germanic root stock word ''wip'' although such word has not yet been found written. Perhaps also from Latin ''vibare'' meaning to shake, akin to the sanscrit root ''vep''. (See Swedish ''vippa'' and Danish ''vippe'' meaning to shake).

===Pronunciation===
*wĭp, /wɪp/, /<tt>wIp</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪp|Rhymes: -ɪp]]
*{{audio|en-us-whip.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*hwĭp, /ʍɪp/, /<tt>WIp</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪp|Rhymes: -ɪp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# A [[rod]] or [[rope]] used to [[punish]] or [[torture]] victims by [[hit]]ting them.
# A member of a [[political]] [[party]] who is in charge of enforcing the party's [[policy|policies]] in [[vote]]s.
# {{nautical}} A [[purchase]] in which one [[block]] is used to gain a 2:1 [[mechanical advantage]].

====Derived terms====
*[[dogwhip]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[roer]]
*Albanian: [[kamxhik]]
*Arabic: [[السوط]]
*Azeri: [[çubuq]]
*Bengali: [[bet]]
*Bulgarian: [[бич]] (bič)
*Catalan: [[fuet]]
*Chinese: [[鞭打]] (biān dǎ)
*Croatian: [[bič]]
*Czech: [[bič]]
*Dutch: [[zweep]]
*Estonian: [[piitsutama]]
*Faeroese: [[píska]]
*Finnish: [[piiska]]
*French: [[fouet]]
*Frisian: [[swipe]]
*Georgian: [[შოლტი]] (šolti)
*German: [[Peitsche]]
*Greek: [[κτυπήστε]] (ktypēste)
*Hebrew: [[שׁוֹט]]
*Hindi: [[chabuka]]
*Hungarian: [[felhúzókötél]]
*Indonesian: [[cemeti]]
*Irish: [[fuip]]
*Italian: [[frusta]] {{f}}, [[nerbo]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[鞭]] ([[むち]]) (muchi)
*Korean: [[채찍]] (chaejjig)
{{mid}}
*Latvian: [[celtnis]]
*Lithuanian: [[botagas]]
*Mongolian: [[ташуур]] (tašuur)
*Norwegian: [[pisk]]
*[[Papiamentu]]: [[zuip]]
*Persian: [[ﻕﻻﺸ ‘ﻩﻨﺎﻴﺯﺎﺘ]]
*Polish: [[bat]]
*Portuguese: [[chicote]] , [[açoite]]
*Romanian: [[bici]]
*Russian: [[кнут]] (knut)
*Serbian: [[бич]] (bič)
*Slovak: [[bič]]
*Slovenian: [[bič]]
*Spanish: [[fusta]] {{f}}, [[látigo]] {{m}}
*Sranan: [[krawasi]]
*Swahili: [[kambaa]]
*Swedish: [[piska]]
*Tagalog: [[latiko]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[కొరడా]] (koraDA)
*Thai: [[หวด]] (hùat)
*Turkish: [[kamçi]]
*Ukrainian: [[батіг]] (batíg)
*Uyghur: [[qamcha]]
*Vietnamese: [[roi]]
*Welsh: [[chwip]]
*Yiddish: [[beish]]
*[[Yucatec]]: [[hats'ik]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|whip|p|ing}}

# To [[hit]] with a whip.
# By extension, to hit with any flexible object.
# To [[defeat]].
# To [[mix]] [[food]] in a rapid aerating fashion.
# To [[urge]] into action. (''He whipped the department into shape.'')
# {{nautical}} To bind the end of a [[rope]] with [[twine]] or other [[small stuff]] to prevent its [[unlay]]ing.

===Derived terms===
*[[whipper]]

====Translations====
;To hit with a whip (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ruoskia]], [[piiskata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;By extension, to hit with any flexible object (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ruoskia]], [[piiskata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To defeat (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[piestä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To mix food in a rapid aerating fashion (4)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[vatkata]], [[vispata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To urge into action (5)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[piiskata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[azotar]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb|whip|p|ing}}

# To snap back and forth like a whip.  (''The pennants whipped in the wind.'')
# To move very fast.  (''The wind whipped through the valley.'')

===Synonyms===
# A whip used on horses: [[crop]], [[dressage whip]], [[driving whip]], [[jumping bat]] .
# [[knout]]
# [[quirt]]
# (South African) [[sjambok]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[bg:whip]]
[[fr:whip]]
[[io:whip]]
[[it:whip]]
[[hu:whip]]
[[ru:whip]]
[[fi:whip]]
[[ta:whip]]
[[vi:whip]]
[[uk:whip]]
[[zh:whip]]