==English==

===Alternative spellings===
* whoop-dee-doo
* whoop de doo
* whoop dee doo

===Usage Notes===
* All forms of '''whoop-de-doo''' are often used in a sarcastic sense.

===Interjection===
'''whoop-de-doo'''

# Exclamation indicating [[excitement]] or [[enthusiasm]].
#* '''2001:''' David J. Shayler, ''Gemini''
#*: 'Whoop-de-doo!', yelled a surprised Conrad as the large engine ignited in front of them. That's the biggest thrill of my life.'
#* '''2002:''' Kylie Adams, ''Baby, Baby''
#*:Tatiana rolled her eyes and waved a finger in the air. "Whoop dee doo."

===Adjective===
'''whoop-de-doo'''

# Causing or marked by excitement, enthusiasm, or [[showiness]].
#* '''1996:''' Florence King, ''The Florence King Reader''
#*: Piscops are appalled by whoop-dee-doo gospel selections like "Jesus Wants Me for a Sunbeam" and "Brighten the Corner Where You Are."
#* '''2000:''' Robert Christgau, ''Christgau's Consumer Guide: Albums of the '90s''
#*: ...they presuppose not only disposable income but a commitment to affluence that insures the ultimate banality of the CD'S concrète-naif sound effects and whoop-de-doo chord changes.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[commotion]] or [[frenzy]] of activity or excitement.
#* '''1972:''' Alec Wilder, ''American Popular Song: The Great Innovators, 1900-1950''
#*: And, without any dramatic whoop-de-doo at the close of this song, he merely restates his simple, sentimental first phrase.
#* '''2001:''' Dick Harte, ''Off Season''
#*: We had to see what the whoop-dee-doo was all about, these crowds of Catholics trekking here for hundreds of years.
# An event marked by such commotion, activity, or excitement.
#* '''2003:''' Marshall Chapman, ''Goodbye, Little Rock and Roller''
#*: It was a big whoop-de-doo. Hanes Auditorium was packed to the gills.