==English==
===Noun===
'''wick'''
{{wikipedia}}
#something that [[transport]]s [[liquid]] by [[w:capillary action]], usually a [[woven]] [[string]], [[cord]], or [[strap]], usually of [[fabric]] or [[paper]]
#especially, on a [[candle]] or [[oil]] [[lamp]], the [[cord]] that delivers [[fuel]] into the [[flame]]
#:''Trim the '''wick''' fairly short, so that the flame does not smoke.''

===Transitive verb===
'''wick'''
#to [[transmit]] liquid by capillary action
#:''The fabric '''wicks''' perspiration away from the body.''

[[io:Wick]]
[[it:wick]]


'''Tubarc Action'''

Capillarity is being replaced by Tubarc action because the tube theory employed do not allow lateral flow important for unsaturated hydraulic flow that takes place on porosity (US Pat. 6,766,870 [http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PALL&p=1&u=/netahtml/srchnum.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=6766817.WKU.&OS=PN/6766817&RS=PN/6766817]

From the patent . . . 

Random irregular porous systems utilized for unsaturated flow employ general principles of capillary action, which require that the tube geometry fit properly to the porosity, which is generally analogous to dimensions associated between capillary tubes and the voids in the random porosity. Random porosity has an irregular shape and a highly variable continuity in the geometrical format of the void space, which does not fit to the cylindrical spatial geometry of capillary tubes. This misunderstanding still holds true due to the fact that both capillary tubes and porosity voids are affected by the size of pores to retain and move fluids as unsaturated conditions. Consequently, an enhanced porosity for unsaturated flow that deals more clearly with the spatial geometry is required. This enhanced porosity becomes highly relevant when moving fluids between different locations by unsaturated conditions if reliability is required in the flow and control of fluid dynamic properties. 

Specialized scientific literature about unsaturated zones also recognizes this shortcoming. For example: "Several differences and complications must be considered. One complication is that concepts of unsaturated flow are not as fully developed as those for saturated flow, nor are they as easily applied." (See Dominico & Schwartz, 1990. Physical and Chemical Hydrogeology. Pg. 88. Wiley). Concepts of unsaturated flow have not been fully developed to date, because the "capillary action" utilized to measure the adhesion-cohesion force of porosity is restrained by capillary tube geometry conceptions. The term "capillary action" has been wrongly utilized in the art as a synonym for unsaturated flow, which results in an insinuation that the tube geometry conception captures this phenomenon when in truth it does not.