==English==

===Etymology===
Alteration of [[with]].

===Alternative spellings===
*[[wid]] (''informal'')
*[[with]]

===Pronunciation===
*wĭ''th'', /wɪð/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪð|Rhymes: -ɪð]]
*wĭf, /wɪf/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪf|Rhymes: -ɪf]]

===Preposition===
'''wif'''
# ''(informal'' or ''dialectal)'' [[with]]

===Quotations===

*'''1998:''' That's what I mo' wear ''wif'' my shoes. &mdash; Ted Shine in ''Contributions'', ISBN 0822202387, p. 31
*'''2000:''' I been at the gym gettin' down '''wif''' my peeps. &mdash; Jan King in ''It'S A Girl Thing: The Hilarious Truth About Women'' ISBN 0740711318, p. 161
*'''2002:''' If I don' have no problem '''wif''' my high school test? &mdash; Stan Hayes in ''The Rough English Equivalent'', ISBN 059524579X p. 324

[[Category:English prepositions]]

==Middle English==
===Etymology===
Old English [[wif#Old English|wīf]].
===Noun===
'''wif'''

# Wife.

===Quotations===
*'''ca. 1380:''' It cam in cuppemele &mdash; this craft my '''wif''' used! &mdash;  William Langland, ''Piers Plowman''
*'''ca. 1380:'''
: That in a morwe unto this May saith he
: Rys up, my '''wif''', my love, my lady fre <br/>
&mdash; Geoffrey Chaucer, ''The Canterbury Tales'', The Merchant's Tale


==Old English==
===Etymology===
From Germanic ''*wībam'', of uncertain origin.  Cognate with Old Frisian [[wif#Old Frisian|wif]], Old Saxon [[wif#Old Saxon|wif]] (Dutch [[wijf]]), Old High German [[vip|vīp]] (German [[Weib]] ‘woman’), Old Norse [[víf]].  Tocharian B ''kwīpe'', A ''kip'' ‘vagina’ may be cognates, suggesting an Indo-European root ''*gʰwībʰ-''.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/wi:f/}}

===Noun===
{{Unicode|'''wīf'''}} ''n''
# [[woman]]
# married woman, a [[wife]]

===Descendants===
English: [[wife]]

===Derived terms===
*[[wifmann|wīfmann]]

[[Category:Old English nouns]]
[[fr:wif]]