When Europeans first encountered [[turkey (bird)|turkey]]s in the Americas, they incorrectly identified them with the [[Africa]]n [[Helmeted Guineafowl]] (''Numida meleagris''), also known as the turkey-cock from its importation to Europe through [[Turkey]], and the name of that country stuck as also the name of the American bird. The confusion is also reflected in the scientific name: ''meleagris'' is [[Greek language|Greek]] for guinea-fowl.

The names for the [[Wild Turkey]], the North American species, in other languages also frequently reflect its exotic origins, seen from an Old World viewpoint, and confusion about where it actually comes from. 
*In [[Turkish language|Turkish]] the bird is called ''[[hindi]]'' which means "from & related to [[India]]"; likewise the [[French language|French]] ''d'inde'' ("from India").
*In [[Maltese]] it is called ''dundjan'' (pronounced ''doonDYAHN''), another, maybe not so obvious, reference to India.
*In [[Hebrew language|Hebrew]] the turkey is called ''tarnegol hodu'' (תרנגול הודו), which literally means "Indian [[chicken]]"  Coincidentally, the Hebrew word for India (''hodu'') is a homonym for "thanks," contributing to a popular misconception that the word's etymology connotes "Thanksgiving chicken." 
*In [[Russian language|Russian]] it is called  ''indiuk'' (индюк), and in [[Yiddish language|Yiddish]] ''indik'' (אינדיק), both relating to India.
*In [[Catalan language|Catalan]] it is called ''gall dindi'', literally meaning "Indian chicken"
*The [[Dutch language|Dutch]] word is ''kalkoen'' derived from the city [[Kozhikode|Calicut]] in India, likewise [[Danish language|Danish]] and [[Norwegian language|Norwegian]] ''kalkun,'' and [[Swedish language|Swedish]] ''kalkon'', as well as in [[Papiamento]] ''kalakuna''.
*In [[Portuguese language|Portuguese]] the word for turkey is ''peru'' which also refers to the country [[Peru]]. 
*In [[Arabic language|Arabic]] it is called ''deek roumi'' (ديك رومي) meaning Roman Rooster or, less commonly, "[[Ethiopia|Ethiopian]] bird."  
*In Colloquial Egyptian Arabic it is called the "Greek Bird"
*In [[Greek language|Greek]] it is ''gallopoula'' which means "[[France|French]] girl" or "French bird"
*In [[Scottish Gaelic language|Scottish Gaelic]] it is called ''cearc frangach'', meaning "French chicken".
*In [[Japanese language|Japan]] the turkey is called ''shichimencho'' (&#19971;&#38754;&#40165;) and in [[Korea]] ''chilmyeonjo'', both of which translate as "seven-faced bird". This is said to reflect the ability of the bird, particularly the male, to change the form of its face depending on its mood.
*In [[Chinese language|Chinese]] it is called ''huoji'' (火鸡) which means "fire chicken", named after the color of the head. 
* In [[Bahasa Indonesia]] it is called ''Kalkun'' and derived from Dutch word ''kalkoen''
* In [[Bahasa Melayu]] it is called either "Ayam Piru" from the Portuguese name for the bird or "Ayam Belanda" (Dutch Chicken)