==English==
===Other spellings===
*[[Waradgery]]
*[[Wiradhari]]
*[[Wiradhurri]]
*[[Wiradthuri]]
*[[Wiradyuri]]
*[[Wiragere]]
*[[Wirradgerry]]
*[[Wirradhuri]]
*[[Wirradhurri]]
*[[Wirratherie]]
*[[Woradgery]]

===Proper noun===
'''Wiradhuri'''

{{wikipedia2|Wiradjuri}}
# An [[indigenous]] people of [[New South Wales]], [[Australia]].
# Their language.
{{wikipedia2|Wiradhuri language}}

===Quotations===
*'''1873,''' [[w:William Ridley|William Ridley]], ''Australian Languages and Traditions,'' in ''The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland,'' Vol. 2
*:Mr. Günther’s and Mr. Watson’s treat of the same language, the '''Wīrādhurri''', or, as some aborigines pronounce it, '''Wīrāgĕrĕ''', a language spoken over a wide extent of country, from the Upper Namoi, the Castlereagh and Liverpool Plains in the north and east, to the Bawun or Darling west, and the Lachlan in the south. [...] I suppose this “Northerumberland dialect” was not spoken over more than one-fiftieth of the extent of country over which '''Wiradhuri''' or Kamilaroi is known.
*'''1892,''' John Fraser, ''An Australian Language''
*:The '''Wirradhuri''' dialect, or as I call it, the '''Wirádhari''', covers the whole heart of N. S. Wales; [...]
*'''1896,''' [[w:R. H. Mathews|R. H. Mathews]], ''The Būrbŭng of the Wiradthuri Tribes,'' in ''The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland,'' Vol. 25
*:The tribes who attended the Būrbŭng described in this paper  were some of those belonging to the '''Wiradthuri''' community, which in former times was both numerous and important, occupying a wide tract of country in the interior of New South Wales, extending from somewhere about the Murray River northerly nearly to the Barwan river, where they were joined by the great Kamilaroi tribes.
*'''1904,''' [[w:R. H. Mathews|R. H. Mathews]], ''The Wiradyuri and other languages of New South Wales,'' in ''The Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland,'' Vol. 34
*:The native tribes speaking the '''Wiradyuri''' language occupy an immense region in the central and southern portions of New South Wales.
*'''2002,''' [[w:R. M. W. Dixon|R. M. W. Dixon]], ''Australian Languages: Their Nature and Development''
*:We can recognise '''Wiradhurri''' and Ngiyambaa as constituting a branch within the subgroup, [...]

===External links===
{{ethnologue|code=wrh}}

[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]