==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/wɪt/}}
:*Homophones''': [[whit]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[witt#Old English|witt]], from Germanic ''*witjan'', from Indo-European ''*weid-, *wid-'' ‘see, know’.  Cognate with Dutch [[weet]], German [[Witz]], Swedish [[vett]].  Compare [[wise]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# ''(now usually in plural)'' One's [[mind]] or [[sense]]; [[sanity]].
#:''Have you completely lost your '''wits'''?''
# ''(archaic)'' Intellectual ability; faculty of thinking, reasoning.
#:''Where she has gone to is beyond the '''wit''' of man to say.''
# The ability to think quickly; mental cleverness, especially wittiness.
#:''My father had a quick '''wit''' and a steady hand.''
# ''(obsolete except in set phrases)'' Intelligence; common sense.
#:''The opportunity was right in front of you, and you didn't even have the '''wit''' to take it!''
# Spoken [[humour]], especially when clever or quick.
#:''The best man's speech was hilarious, full of '''wit''' and charm.''
# A person who tells funny anecdotes or jokes; someone witty.
#:''Your friend is quite a '''wit''', isn't he?''

=====Translations=====
'''mind, sanity'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''intellectual ability'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''ability to think quickly'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sukkeluus]], [[nokkeluus]]
*Spanish: [[agudeza]], [[ingenio]]
*Italian: [[arguzia]], [[genio]]
*Portuguese: [[agudeza]], [[agudez]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''intelligence: see [[intelligence]]'''

'''spoken humour, particularly that thought of quickly'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sutkaus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''person who tells funny anecdotes or jokes'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
{{top2}}
*[[have one's wits about one]]
{{mid2}}
*[[scare out of one's wits]]
*[[witless]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[witan#Old English|witan]], from Germanic ''*witanan'', from Indo-European ''*weid-, *wid-'' ‘see, know’.  Cognate with Dutch [[weten]], German [[wissen]], Swedish [[veta]]; and with Latin [[videre]] ‘see’.  Compare [[guide]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|wit|wot|wist|witting}}
# ''(transitive and intransitive, archaic)'' to [[know]], be [[aware]] of
#:''I '''wot''' not what to.''
#:''You are meddling in matters that men should not '''wit''' of.''

====Usage note====
The present-tense form '''[[wot]]''' is invariable for all grammatical persons and numbers.

====Derived terms====
*[[to wit]]

----

==Dutch==
===Adjective===
'''wit''' (Alternate form: [[witte]], comparative: [[witter]], superlative: [[witst]])

#[[white]]

===Noun===
'''wit''' ''n'' (Plural: [[witten]])

#white

[[Category:Dutch adjectives]]

----

==Old English==
===Etymology===
Germanic ''*wid-'', from Indo-European ''*wed-'', a suffixed form of ''*wei-'' (see [[we#Old English|wē]]).  Cognate with Old Norse [[vit]], Gothic [[𐍅𐌹𐍄]], Lithuanian [[vedu|vèdu]].

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/wɪt/}}

===Personal pronoun===
'''wit'''
# [[we#English|we]] two: nominative dual form of [[ic|iċ]]

[[Category:Old English pronouns]]

[[af:wit]]
[[es:wit]]
[[fr:wit]]
[[ko:wit]]
[[io:wit]]
[[id:wit]]
[[it:wit]]
[[hu:wit]]
[[nl:wit]]
[[vi:wit]]
[[zh:wit]]