{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|enough|quite|brought|231|woman|want|home|whose}}

===Etymology===
[[Old English]] [[wifmann|wīfmann]], from [[wif|wīf]] (‘adult female’, [[Modern English]] [[wife]]) + [[mann]] (‘human being’).

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]] & US:'' {{IPA|/ˈwʊmən/}}

===Noun===
'''woman''' (plural '''[[women]]''')

#An [[adult]] [[female]] [[human being]].

====Antonyms====
*[[man]]

====Translations====
'''adult female human being'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[vrou]]
*Albanian: [[grua]], [[femër]]
*Apache: 
*:Chiricahua: [[’isdzán]]
*:Jicarilla: [[ch’eekéé]]
*:Western Apache: [[isdzánhń]] (-[[’isdzą’]])
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[امراة|امرأة]]}} (’ímra’a) {{f}}, {{ARchar|[[مراة|مرأة]]}} (már’a) {{f}}
*[[Aragonese]]: [[muller]] {{f}}
*Basque: [[andre]], [[emakume]]
*Bosnian: [[žena#Bosnian|žena]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[maouez]] {{f}} -ed {{p}}
*Bulgarian: [[жена#Bulgarian|жена]] (žena) {{f}}
*Catalan: [[dona]] {{f}} [[:ca:dona|^]] 
*CJKV Characters: [[女]]
*Chinese: [[妇女]] (fùnǚ), [[女人]] (nǚrén)
*Croatian: [[žena#Croatian|žena]] {{f}}
*Czech: [[žena#Czech|žena]] {{f}} 
*Danish: [[kvinde]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[vrouw]] {{f}}
*Esperanto: [[virino]]
*Estonian: [[naine]]
*Fijian: [[marama]] ([[:fj:marama|^]])
*Finnish: [[nainen]]
*French: [[femme]] {{f}}
*Frisian: [[frou]]
*Georgian: [[ქალი]] (kali)
*German: [[Frau]] {{f}} [[:de:Frau|^]]
*Guaraní: [[kuña]]
*Hebrew: [[אישה]] (išá) {{f}}
*Hindi: [[औरत]] (aurat) {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[nő]]
*Icelandic: [[kona]] ({{p}}: [[konur]])
*[[Ido]]: muliero
*Indonesian: [[perempuan]], [[wanita]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[femina]]
*Irish: [[bean]] (''gen. sg. & nom. pl.'' [[mná]], ''gen. pl.'' [[ban#Irish|ban]])
*Italian: [[donna]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[女の人]] (おんなのひと, onná no hitó)
*Korean: [[여자]] (yeoja) / [[여성]] (yeoseong)
*Kurdish: [[jin]], [[pîrek]], [[afret]], [[kilfet]]
*Latin: [[femina]] {{f}}, [[mulier]] {{f}}
*Latvian: [[sieviete]] {{f}}
*Lithuanian: [[moteris]] {{f}}
*[[Lojban]]: [[ninmu]]
*[[Malayalam]]: (sthree), (wanitha)
*[[Manx]]: [[ben#Manx|ben]] {{f}}
*Maltese: [[mara]]
*Marathi: [[बाइको]]
*[[Mi'kmaq]]: [[ebit]]
*Navajo: [[asdzáán]], [[asdzą́ą́]]
*Norwegian: [[kvinne]]
*[[Novial]]: [[fema]]
*Old English: [[wif|wīf]], [[wifmann|wīfmann]], [[ides]], [[freo|frēo]], [[cwen|cwēn]], [[cwene]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[زن|زَن]]}} (zæn)
*Polish: [[kobieta]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[mulher]] {{f}}
*[[Powhatan]]: [[krenepo]]
*Romanian: [[femeie]] {{f}}, [[muiere]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[женщина]] (žénščina) {{f}}
*[[Scots Gaelic]]: [[bean#Scottish Gaelic|bean]] {{f}} (''gen. sg. & nom. pl.'' [[mnàthan]], ''gen. pl.'' [[bean#Scottish Gaelic|bean]])
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[жена#Serbian|жена]] {{f}}
*:Roman: [[žena#Serbian|žena]] {{f}}
*Slovak [[žena]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[ženska]] {{f}}, [[žena]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[mujer]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[kvinna]] {{c}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఆడది]] (aaDadi), [[స్త్రీ]] (stree), [[మహిళ]] (mahiLa)
*[[Tetum]]: [[feto]]
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[meri]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[kunhã]]
*Turkish: [[kadın]]
*[[Tz'utujil]]: [[ixoq]]
*Ukrainian: [[жінка]] (žínka) {{f}}
*Urdu: {{URchar|[[عورت]]}} ('aurat) {{f}}
*Welsh: [[dynes]] {{f}}
*Yiddish: [[froy]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top}}
*[[gentlewoman]]
*[[womanish]]
*[[womanly]]
{{mid}}
*[[womanhood]]
*[[women]]
*[[womyn]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[female]]
*[[feminine]]
*[[femme]]
*[[gal]]
*[[girl]]
*[[lady]]
*[[wikiSaurus:woman]]

[[Category:English irregular plurals]]
[[Category:Human]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:woman]]
[[de:woman]]
[[et:woman]]
[[el:woman]]
[[es:woman]]
[[fa:woman]]
[[fr:woman]]
[[ko:woman]]
[[hy:woman]]
[[io:woman]]
[[it:woman]]
[[ku:woman]]
[[hu:woman]]
[[ja:woman]]
[[pl:woman]]
[[pt:woman]]
[[ro:woman]]
[[ru:woman]]
[[simple:woman]]
[[sr:woman]]
[[fi:woman]]
[[sv:woman]]
[[ta:woman]]
[[uk:woman]]
[[zh:woman]]