{{see|Wood}}
==English==

{{rank|higher|military|passage|892|wood|matters|physical|spring}}

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]] & US:'' {{IPA|/wʊd/}}
*{{audio|en-us-wood.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʊd|-ʊd]]

====Homophones====
*[[would]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English [[wudu]].

====Noun====
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{uncountable}} A forested or wooded area, most often used in the plural: "he got lost in the woods beyond Seattle". 
# {{uncountable}} The substance making up the central part of the [[trunk]] and [[branches]] of a [[tree]]. Used as a material for construction, to manufacture various items, etc. or as fuel.
# {{countable}} As the previous but referring to a particular wood, i.e. a wood that is recognized as such in the trade. "Teak is much used for outdoor benches, but a number of other woods are also suitable, such as ipé, redwood, etc". 
# {{countable}} A type of [[golf club]] the [[head]] of which is frequently made of wood.
# {{slang}} an [[erection]]

=====Derived terms=====
{{top}}
*[[hardwood]]
*[[softwood]]
*[[woodchopper]]
*[[woodcock]]
{{mid}}
*[[wooden]]
*[[woodpecker]]
*[[woody]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations=====
'''substance, timber'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[dru]]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[خشب]]}} (kháshab)
*Basque: [[zur]]
*[[Blackfoot]]: [[mĭstcĭs]]
*Breton: [[koad]] {{m}}, koadeier / koadoù
*Catalan: [[fusta]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[木]] (mù)
*Croatian: [[drvo]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[hout]] {{n}} (2), [[houtsoort]] {{f}} (3), [[woud]] {{n}} (1)
*Esperanto: [[ligno]]
*Estonian: [[puit]]
*Finnish: [[puu#Finnish|puu]]
*French: [[bois]] {{m}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[hout]] {{n}}
*German: [[Holz]] {{n}} (2,3), [[Wald]] (1){{n}}
*Greek (classic): [[ξύλον]] (xýlon)
*[[Guarani]]: [[yvyra]]
*Hebrew [[עץ]] (‘ets), [[קרש]] (khorsh)
*[[Hindi]]: [[लक्डी]] (luckdee)
*[[Hopi]]: [[koho]]
*Hungarian: [[fa]]
*Ilocano: [[kayo]]
*Indonesian: [[kayu]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[ligno]]
*Italian: [[legno]] {{m}}, [[bosco]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[木]], [[木材]] (もくざい, mokuzai)
*Korean: [[나무]] (namu)
*Latin: [[materia]] (2), [[lignum]] (2,3), [[silva]] (1)
*[[Marathi]]: [[लाकुड]] (Lākud)
*[[Mingo]]: [[úwẽ'kææ']], [[uyêta']]
*[[Mohawk]]: [[oyente]]
*Occitan: [[bosc]], [[lenha]], [[fusta]]
*Old English: [[wudu]] (1,2,3)
*[[Ossetian]]: {{RUchar|[[хъæд]]}} (khaed)
*Piedmontese: [[bosch]]
*Polish: [[drewno]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[madeira]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[lemn]] {{n}}
*Romansch: [[lain]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[дерево]] (dérevo) {{n}}
*Sardinian: [[linna]] {{f}}
*Scots Gaelic: [[fiodh]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[les]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[madera]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[trä]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[చిట్టడవి]] (ciTTaDavi) (1), [[కలప]] (kalapa) (2)
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[ybyrá]]
*Turkish: [[odun]]
*Welsh: [[coed]]
*[[Yucatec]] ([[Maya]]): [[čeʼ]]
{{bottom}}

'''pieces gathered to make fire'''
{{top}}
*Basque: [[egur]]
*Catalan: [[llenya]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[leña]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[ved]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''type of golf club'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[puu#Finnish|puu]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[Holz]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''an erection (slang)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*German: [[Latte]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj-notcomp}}

#Made of wood.

====Synonyms====
*[[wooden]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[houten]]
*Finnish: [[puinen]], [[puu#Finnish|puu-]] (''prefix in a compound'')
*German: [[Holz]]-
{{mid}}
*Telugu: [[కలప]] (kalapa)
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To supply or cover with trees.
#:''He is down in the '''wooded''' dell.''

===Etymology 2===
Old English [[wod|wōd]].

====Adjective====
{{en-adj-er}}
# {{archaic}} [[mad]], [[insane]], [[crazed]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:wood]]
[[ko:wood]]
[[hy:wood]]
[[io:wood]]
[[it:wood]]
[[kk:wood]]
[[hu:wood]]
[[ja:wood]]
[[pt:wood]]
[[simple:wood]]
[[fi:wood]]
[[ta:wood]]
[[vi:wood]]
[[uk:wood]]
[[zh:wood]]