==Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
/wOrden/
===verb===
#to [[become]]
====Conjugation====

Auxiliary verb: [[zijn]]

<table border=1 cellspacing=0 cellpadding =2>
<tr><th>...tense<br>person...</th><th>Present <br>(onvoltooid tegenwoordige tijd))</th><th>Past <br>(onvoltooid verleden tijd)</th><th>Past participle<br> (voltooid deelwoord)</th></tr>
<tr><th colspan=4>singular</th></tr>
<tr><th>[[ik]]</th><td>word</td><td>werd</td><td>geworden</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[jij]] ([[je]])/[[u]]</th><td>wordt</td><td>werd</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[hij]]/[[zij]] ([[ze]])/[[men]]</th><td>wordt</td><td>werd</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th colspan=4>plural</th></tr>
<tr><th>[[wij]] ([[we]])</th><td>worden</td><td>werden</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[jullie]]</th><td>worden</td><td>werden</td><td>id.</td></tr>
<tr><th>[[zij]] ([[ze]])</th><td>worden</td><td>werden</td><td>id.</td></tr>
</table>

Present participle (onvoltooid deelwoord): [[wordend]], [[wordende]]

Imperative (gebiedende wijs): [[word]]

:'''Note'''
:* When the order of ''jij'' (or the unstressed form ''je'') and ''wordt'' is reversed, the final t is dropped. Compare ''Jij wordt'' (you become) with ''Word jij'' (do you become). This is not the case when the polite form ''u'' is used.

:'''Usage examples'''
:* ''Zij wilde altijd al lerares worden.'': She always wanted to become a teacher.
===Passive voice===
::'''Usage notes'''
::* The subject ondergoes an act. In English the verb to [[be]] is used.
::'''Usage examples'''
::::* ''De muur wordt geschilderd'': The wall is painted
::::* ''De muur werd geschilderd'': The wall was painted
::::* ''De muur zal worden geschilderd'': The wall will be painted
::::* ''De muur is geschilderd (geworden)'': The wall has been painted

::'''Note'''
::*''geworden'' has been put between brackets because it has become archaic to put ''geworden'' at the end of a Dutch passive voice.