{{inuse}}
==English==

===Etymology (1)===
{{OE.}} ''work, werk, weork'', {{AS.}} ''weorc, worc''; akin to {{OFries.}} ''werk, wirk'', {{OS.}}, {{D.}}, & {{G.}} ''werk'', {{OHG.}} ''werc, werah'', {{Icel.}} & {{Sw.}} ''verk'', {{Dan.}} ''værk'', {{Goth.}} ''gawa\#xa3rki'', {{Gr.}} ''work'', to do, an instrument, secret rites, ''Zend verez'' to work.  Confer: [[bulwark]], [[energy]], [[erg]], [[georgic]], [[liturgy]], [[metallurgy]], [[organ]], [[surgeon]], [[wright]].

====Noun====
'''work''' ([[uncountable]] and [[countable]]; plural: [[works]])

# [[Labour]], [[occupation]], [[job]]. ("I go to ''work'' everyday.")
# [[Effort]] expended on a particular task. ("Holding a brick over your head may be tiring, but you aren't doing any ''work''.")
# {{cattag|physics}}: A measure of [[energy]] expended in moving an object; most commonly, [[force]]*[[distance]].  No work is done if the object does not [[move]].  ("''Work'' is done against friction to drag a bag along the ground.")
# A literary, artistic, or intellectual production.  ("It is a ''work'' of art")
# A [[person]] of importance.   ("You are a piece of ''work''.")
# A place of work.  ("He's not here, he's still at work.")

=====Related terms=====
*[[artwork]]
*[[dreamwork]]
*[[fireworks]]
*[[masterwork]]
*[[public works]]
*[[waterworks]]
*[[work of art]]
*[[work out]]
*[[workout]]

=====Translations=====
*[[Breton]]: [[labour]] ''m'' -ioù ''pl'' (1), [[oberenn]] ''f'' -où ''pl'' (3)
*Bulgarian: (rabota) ''f''
*Dutch: [[werk]] (1), [[arbeid]] (2) ''n''
*Finnish: [[työ]]
*French: [[travail]] ''m''
*[[Frisian]]: [[wurk]] ''n''
*German: [[Arbeit]] ''f'' (1,2,5), [[Werk]] ''n'' (3) 
*{{ga}}: [[obair]]
*Hungarian: [[munka]]
*Italian: [[lavoro]] ''m''
*Polish: [[praca]] ''f'' (1,2), [[wyrób]] ''m'' (3), [[wytwór]] ''m'' (3), [[dzieło]] ''n'' (3)
*Portuguese: [[trabalho]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[muncă]] ''f''
*Russian: [[работа]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[trabajo]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[arbete]] ''n''

===Etymology (2)===
Imperfect & past participle Worked, or Wrought; present participle & verbal noun Working. 
{{AS.}} ''wyrcean'' (imperfect ''worthe, wrohte'', past participle ''geworht, gewroht''); akin to {{OFries.}} ''werka, wirka'', {{OS.}} ''wirkian'', {{D.}} ''werken'', {{G.}} ''wirken'', {{Icel.}} ''verka, yrkja, orka'', {{Goth.}} ''wa\#xa3rkjan''.

====Verb (1)====
[[Intransitive]]:  '''to work''' ([[worked]], [[working]])
#to [[labour]]; to apply [[effort]] ("Don't criticize me, I ''work'' for a living."  "He ''worked'' hard every day." "She ''works'' hard for the money.")

=====Related terms=====
*[[worker]]
*[[working]]
*[[work at]]
*[[work on]]
*[[work out]]
*[[work up]]

=====Translations=====
*[[Breton]]: [[labourat]]
*Czech: [[pracovat]]
*Dutch: [[werken]]
*Finnish: [[työskennellä]], [[tehdä]] [[työtä]]
*French: [[travailler]], [[bosser]] (slang)
*[[Frisian]]: [[wurkje]]
*German: [[arbeiten]] (1)
*Hebrew: [[לעבוד]]
*{{ga}}: [[obair]]
*Hungarian [[dolgozik]]
*Polish: [[pracować]]
*Portuguese: [[trabalhar]]
*Romanian: [[munci]]
*Russian: [[работать]]
*Spanish: [[trabajar]] (1)
*Swedish: [[arbeta]]

====Verb (2)====
[[Transitive]]:  '''to work''' ([[worked]], [[wrought]], [[working]])
#''usually of a machine'' to function.  ("We found the machine to be in good ''working'' order.")
#A process, chemical, or system provided to solve a problem or relieve a disconfort.  ("He looked at the bottle of pain pills, wondering if they would ''work''.") 

[[Inransitive]]:  '''to work''' ([[worked]], [[working]])
#''usually of a machine'' to function. (He pointed at the car and asked, "Does it ''work''?")

=====Translations=====
*[[Breton]]: [[mont]] [[en-dro]]
*Finnish: [[toimia]]
*French: [[marcher]], [[fonctionner]]
*German: [[funktionieren]] (1), [[wirken]] (2)
*Hungarian: [[működik]]
*Polish: [[działać]]
*Romanian: [[merge]], [[funcţiona]]
*Spanish: [[funcionar]]

[[fr:work]]
[[la:Work]]
[[ru:Work]]

{{rfc}}