==English==

=== Etymology 1 ===
Middle English, after the town of [[Worsted]], now Worstead.
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# Wool yarn made from long strands of wool, creating fine, smooth fabric.
#:'''1871''' ''"Yes, young people are usually blind to everything but their own wishes, and seldom imagine how much those wishes cost others," said Mrs. Garth She did not mean to go beyond this salutary general doctrine, and threw her indignation into a needless unwinding of her '''worsted''', knitting her brow at it with a grand air.'' — George Eliot, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=292303629&tag=Eliot,+George:+Middlemarch:+a+study+of+provincial+life+(1900),+1871&query=worsted+ý&id=EliMidd Middlemarch.]''
# The fabric maded from worsted wool.
#:'''1902''' ''He had tied a bit of '''white''' worsted round his neck -- Why? Where did he get it? Was it a badge -- an ornament -- a charm -- a propitiatory act? Was there any idea at all connected with it?'' Joseph Conrad, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=171509961&tag=Conrad,+Joseph,+1857-1924:+Heart+of+Darkness,+1902&query=worsted+ý&id=ConDark The Heart of Darkness.]'' 

===Adjective===
'''worsted'''
# Pertaining to worsted yarn and the fabric made from it.

=== Etymology 2 ===
From [[worse]], comparative of [[ill]] and [[bad]]

===Adjective===
'''worsted'''
# Pertaining to being [[bested]].
#:'''1869''' ''Jo carried her love of liberty and hate of conventionalities to such an unlimited extent that she naturally found herself '''worsted''' in an argument.'' — Louisa May alcott, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=60874635&tag=Alcott,+Louisa+May,+1832-1888:+Little+Women,+1869&query=worsted+ý&id=AlcLitt Little Women.]''