{{webster}}
==English==

{{rank|evil|outside|beside|695|worth|please|quiet|exclaimed}}

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:'' {{IPA|/wɜːθ/}}
* ''US:'' {{IPA|/wɜːrθ/}}
*{{audio|en-us-worth.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
'''to worth'''

#To be; to become; to betide; — now used only in the phrases, woe worth the day, woe worth the man, etc., in which the verb is in the imperative, and the nouns day, man, etc., are in the dative. Woe be to the day, woe be to the man, etc., are equivalent phrases.

===Adjective===
'''worth'''

#Valuable; of worthy; estimable; also, worth while.
#Equal in value to; furnishing an equivalent for; proper to be exchanged for.
#Deserving of; — in a good or bad sense, but chiefly in a good sense.
#Having possessions equal to; having wealth or estate to the value of.
#That quality of a thing which renders it valuable or useful; sum of valuable qualities which render anything useful and sought; value; hence, often, value as expressed in a standard, as money; equivalent in exchange; price.
#Value in respect of moral or personal qualities; excellence; virtue; eminence; desert; merit; usefulness; as, a man or magistrate of great worth.

====Translations====
'''Valuable; of worthy'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[van waarde]], [[waardevol]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Equal in value to'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[gelijkwaardig aan]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Deserving of; — in a good or bad sense, but chiefly in a good sense'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[gewaardeerd]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Having possessions equal to; having wealth or estate to the value of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vermogen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''That quality of a thing which renders it valuable or useful'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Value in respect of moral or personal qualities'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''worth''' (''uncountable'')

#[[value]].

====Translations====
'''value'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|{{قيمة}}]] (qíma) {{f}}
*Chinese: [[价值]] (jiàzhí)
*Dutch: [[waarde]]
*French: [[valeur]] {{m}}
*German: [[Wert]]
*Italian: {[valore]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
Japanese: [[価値]] (かち, kachi)
*Korean: [[가치]] (gachi)
*Portuguese: [[valor]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[цена]] (tsená) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[valor]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[värde]]
{{bottom}}

[[ang:Worth]]
[[it:worth]]
[[hu:worth]]
[[pl:worth]]