==English==

{{rank|we|who|said|45|would|been|will|no}}

===Pronunciation===
* (strong form)
** ''[[RP]] & [[GenAm]]:'' {{IPA|/wʊd/}}, {{SAMPA|/wUd/}}
*{{audio|en-us-would.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* (weak form)
** ''[[RP]] & [[GenAm]]:'' {{IPA|/wəd/, /əd/}}, {{SAMPA|/w@d/, /@d/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʊd|-ʊd]]

====Homophones====
*[[wood]]

=== Auxiliary verb ===
'''would'''

#Indicating in action or state that is conditional on another.
#:''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' 
#:''Bill said he would go if it didn't rain.''
#Indicating a possible (but not definite) future action or state.
#:''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.''
#Indicating an action in the past that was planned or intended.
#:''The waiter said he would be right back.'' 
#Indicating an action in the past that happened repeatedly or commonly. 
#:''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.''
#Used to express a polite request.
#:''Would you please turn off the TV?'' 

====Usage notes====
'''Would''' is used with the infinitive of verbs, without ''to'':
:"John said he would have fish for dinner."

Historically, '''would''' is the past tense of '''[[will]]'''.

Often contracted to [['d]].

====Synonyms====
*(''indicating an action in the past that happened repeatedly or commonly''): [[used to]]
*(''used to express a polite request''): [[be so good as to]], [[kindly]], [[please]]

====Translations====

*''Note: many languages express some meanings of '''would''' using a [[mood]] or [[tense]] rather than by a particular word.''

'''indicating in action or state that is conditional on another'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Catalan: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Estariem més calents si no hagueres obert la finestra!
*Dutch: [[zouden]]
**''Het zou hier warmer zijn, als je het venster niet had geopend/niet zou hebben geopend''
*Esperanto: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Ni estus pli varmaj se vi ne malfermus la fenestron!
*French: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Nous aurions plus chaud si vous n'aviez pas ouvert la fenêtre !
*German: ''Use the conjunctive mood''
**''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Uns wäre wärmer, wenn du das Fenster nicht geöffnet hättest!
*Hungarian: ''Use the conditional tense'', [[-na]]/[[-ne]]/[[-ná]]/[[-né]]
**''It would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Melegebb volna, ha nem nyitot'''tad volna''' ki az ablakot!
*Italian: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - Saremmo più caldi se non aveste aperto la finestra!
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->

{{mid}}
*Spanish: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We would be warmer if you hadn't opened the window!'' - ¡Estaríamos más calientes si no hubieras abierto la ventana!
{{bottom}}

'''indicating a possible (but not definite) future action or state'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[zouden]]
**''We zaten op de bank ons afvragend of de bus deze keer te laat zou zijn.''
*Esperanto: ''Use the future tense''
**''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Ni sidis sur la benko nin demandante, ĉu la buso malfruos ĉi tiun fojon.
*French: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Nous nous sommes assis sur le banc, nous demandant si l'autobus serait en retard cette fois.
*German: ''Use the conjunctive mood''
**''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Wir saßen auf der Bank und fragten uns, ob der Bus diesmal zu spät käme.
*Hungarian: ''Use the future or present tense with [[-e]]''
**''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - A padon ültünk, és azon gondolkoztunk, hogy ezúttal elkésik'''-e''' a busz.
*Italian: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Ci siamo seduti sul banco, domandandoci se il bus sarebbe in ritardo questa volta.
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Spanish: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''We sat on the bench, wondering if the bus would be late this time.'' - Nos sentamos en el banco, preguntándose si el autobús llegaría tarde esta vez
{{bottom}}

'''indicating an action in the past that was planned or intended'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[zouden]]
**''De ober zei dat hij meteen terug zou keren''
*Esperanto: ''Use the future tense''
**''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - La kelnero diris, ke li tuj revenos.
*French: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Le garçon a dit qu'il reviendrait tout de suite.
*German: ''Use the conjunctive mood''
**''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Der Kellner sagte, er sei sofort wieder da.
*Hungarian: ''Use the future or present tense''
**''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - A pincér azt mondta, hogy mindjárt visszajön.
*Italian: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - Il cameriere ha detto che sarebbe ritornato subito. 
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Spanish: ''Use the conditional tense''
**''The waiter said he would be right back.'' - El camarero ha dicho que volvería enseguida. 
{{bottom}}

'''indicating an action in the past that happened repeatedly or commonly'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: ''Use the past tense''
**'''s winters zaten we bij het gat in het bevroren meer en visten we urenlang.''
*Esperanto: ''Use the past tense in the repetitive aspect''
**''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - En la vintroj, ni sidadis apud la truo sur la frostiĝinta lago kaj fiŝkaptadis dum horoj.
*French: ''Use the imperfect tense''
**''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - En hiver, nous nous asseyions à côté du trou sur le lac gelé et nous pêchions pendant des heures.
*German: ''Use the preterite tense and ''immer ''for emphasis on the repetitive nature
**''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - Im Winter saßen wir immer um ein Loch auf den gefrorenen See und angelten stundenlang.
*Hungarian: ''Use the past tense''
**''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - Minden télen órákat ül'''tünk''' a jégen a lyuk mellett, és halász'''tunk'''.
*Italian: ''Use the imperfect tense''
**''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - Durante l'inverno, ci sedevamo presso al buco sul lago gelato e prendevamo pesci per ore.
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Spanish: ''Use the imperfect tense''
**''In the winters, we would sit by the hole on the frozen lake and fish for hours.'' - En invierno, nos sentabamos cerca del agujero que hay en lago conjelado y pescabamos durante horas
{{bottom}}

'''used to express a polite request'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Dutch: [[zouden]], [[gelieve]]
**''Zou u a.u.b. de TV kunnen uitzetten'', ''Gelieve de TV uit te schakelen, a.u.b.''
*Esperanto: [[bonvoli]]
**''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Bonvolu malŝalti la televidon, mi petas?
*French: [[vouloir]], [[veuillez]] (''imperative'')
**''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Pourrais-tu éteindre la télé, s'il te plaît? (''informal''); Pourriez-vous éteindre la télévision, s'il vous plaît? (''formal'')
*German: ''Use the conditional paraphrase employing ''würden
**''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Würden Sie bitte den Fernseher ausschalten?
*Hungarian: ''Use the conditional''
**''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Kérlek, lekapcsol'''nád''' a TV-t?
*Italian: [[volere]]
**''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - Vuoi spegnere la tivù, per favore? (''infomal''); Volete spegnere la televisione, per favore? (''formal'')
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
*Spanish: [[por favor]]
**''Would you please turn off the TV?'' - ¿Podría apagar la televisión, por favor? (''infomal''); Me haría el favor de apagar la televisión? (''very formal'')
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[will]] - present tense of would
*[[wouldst]] - second person singular form of would

===See also===
*[[could]]
*[[should]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[fr:would]]
[[it:would]]
[[hu:would]]
[[ja:would]]
[[zh:would]]