==English==

{{rank|trouble|die|arm|645|wrong|afraid|merely|struck}}

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:'' {{IPA|/rɒŋ/}}
* ''US:'' {{IPA|/rɔːŋ/}}

===Adjective===
'''wrong'''

# [[incorrect|Incorrect]] or [[untrue]]. 
#: ''Some of your answers were correct, and some were '''wrong'''.'' 
#* '''1592''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Richard III''; Act II, Scene I, line 54. &mdash; Among this princely heap, if any here By false intelligence or '''wrong''' surmise Hold me a foe...
# [[immoral|Immoral]], not good, [[bad]]. 
#: ''It is '''wrong''' to lie.'' 
# [[improper|Improper]]; [[unfit]]; [[unsuitable]]. 
#: ''A [[bikini]] is the '''wrong''' thing to wear on a cold day.'' 
# Not working; out of order.
#: ''Something is '''wrong''' with my [[cellphone]]''.
# [[design|Designed]] to be [[worn]] or [[place]]d [[inward]]; as, the '''wrong''' side of a [[garment]] or of a piece of [[cloth]]; [[injurious]]; [[unjust]]; [[faulty]]; [[detrimental]]; [[unfit]]; [[unsuitable]].

====Translations====
;incorrect
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[fout]], [[verkeerd]], [[onjuist]], [[mis]]
*Finnish: [[väärä]], [[väärin]] (''adverb'')
*French: [[faux]], [[incorrect]], [[mauvais]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[incorrecte]], [[erronee]]
*Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[間違い]] (まちがい, machigai), [[誤ち]](あやまち,ayamachi)
*[[Old English]]: [[unriht]]
*Portuguese: [[errado]], [[incorreto]]
*Spanish: [[incorrecto]], [[falso]]
*Swedish: [[fel]], [[felaktig]], [[inkorrekt]]
*Telugu: [[తప్పు]] (tappu)
{{bottom}}

;immoral
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[slecht]], [[fout]], [[verkeerd]]
*Finnish: [[väärin]] (''adverb'')
*French: [[immoral]], [[mal]]
*[[Interlingua]]:[[illicite]], [[immoral]], [[mal]]
*Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[悪]]い(わるい,warui), [[よくない]](yokunai)
*[[Old English]]: [[unriht]]
*Portuguese: [[errado]],[[imoral]]
*Spanish: [[malo]]
*Swedish: [[fel]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[తప్పుడు]] (tappuDu)
{{bottom}}

;improper
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[slecht]], [[fout]], [[verkeerd]]
*Finnish: [[väärä]], [[huono]], [[sopimaton]]
*French: [[impropre]], [[mauvais]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[improprie]] (3)
*Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[悪]]い(わるい,warui), [[よくない]](yokunai),[[不適当]]な(ふてきとうな,futekitō na),[[不適切]]な(ふてきせつな,futekisetsuna)
*[[Old English]]: [[unriht]]
*Portuguese: [[errado]], [[impróprio]], [[inadequado]]
*Spanish: [[incorrecto]], [[falso]]
*Swedish: [[fel]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[సరికాని]] (sarikaani)
{{bottom}}

;not working
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[fout]], [[verkeerd]], [[mis]]
*Finnish: [[rikki]], [[rikkinäinen]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[a torto]]
*Indonesian: [[salah]], [[keliru]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[具合が悪くて]] (ぐあいがわるくて,guai ga warukute),[[故障]]で(こしょうで, koshōde),[[調子]]が[[狂って]](ちょうしがくるって,chōshi ga kurutte)
*Portuguese: [[errado]]
*Swedish: [[fel]]
{{bottom}}

;designed to be worn or placed inward
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Balinese}}: [[pelih]]

===Adverb===
'''wrong'''

# In a way that isn't [[right]]; done [[incorrectly]]; [[wrongfully]]. 
#: ''I spelled several names wrong in my address book.'' 

====Translations====
;done incorrectly
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[fout]], [[foutief]], [[verkeerd]], [[onjuist]]
*Finnish: [[väärin]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[incorrectemente]], [[erroneemente]], [[a torto]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[incorretamente]], [[erroneamente]], [[erradamente]]
*Slovene: [[narobe]]
*Swedish: [[fel]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''wrong'''  (''plural:'' '''[[wrongs]]''')

# Something that is [[immoral]] or not good. 
#: ''Injustice is a [[heinous]] '''wrong'''.''
# The [[incorrect]] or [[unjust]] [[position]] or [[opinion]]. (Or is it the wronged?)
#* '''1592''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry VI'', Part III, Act IV, Scene I, line 101. &mdash; I blame not her: she could say little less; She had the '''wrong'''.
# The [[opposite]] of [[right]]; something which is wrong, particularly [[injustice]].
#* '''1607''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Timon of Athens'', Act IV, Scene III, line 28. &mdash; Thus much of this will make Black white, foul fair, '''wrong''' right, Base noble, old young, coward valiant.

====Translations====
'''something immoral''' (1)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[misstand]] {{m}}, [[wantoestand]] {{m}}, [[onrechtmatig]]e [[daad]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[vääryys]]
*French: [[crime]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*[[Old English]]: [[unriht]] {{n}}
*Swedish: [[fel]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''incorrect opinion or position''' (2)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''something incorrect, injustice''' (3)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[verkeerde]] {{n}}, [[kwaad]] {{n}}, [[onrecht]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[väärä]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[fel]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[injuria]], [[crimine]], [[peccato]], [[torto]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[injúria]] ''f'', [[crime]] ''m'', [[pecado]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[crimen]] ''m''

===Verb===
'''to wrong''' ([[wrongs]], [[wronged]], [[wronging]])

# To treat [[unjustly]]; to [[injure]] or [[harm]].
#: ''The [[dealer]] '''wronged''' us by selling us this [[lemon]] of a [[car]].''
#* '''1591''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry VI'', Part I, Act II, Scene IV, line 109. &mdash; Thou dost then '''wrong''' me, as that slaughterer doth Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.
# To [[deprive]] of some [[right]], or to [[withhold]] some act of [[justice]].
#* '''1597''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Henry IV'', Part II, Act IV, Scene I, line 121. &mdash; ... And might by no suit gain our audience. When we are '''wrong'd''' and would unfold our griefs, We are denied access unto his person Even by those men that most have done us wrong. 
# To [[slander]]; to [[impute]] [[evil]] to unjustly.
#* '''1598''': [[w:Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''Julius Caesar'', Act III, Scene II, line 121. &mdash; O masters! if I were dispos'd to stir Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage, I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong, Who (you all know) are honorable men.  I will not do them wrong; I rather choose To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you, Than I will wrong such honorable men.

====Translations====
;treat unjustly
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[benadelen]], [[onrecht]] [[doen]]/[[aandoen]]
*Finnish: [[tehdä väärin]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;deprive of a right
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tehdä vääryyttä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;slander or impute evil
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[onbillijk]] [[beoordelen]]
*Finnish: [[tehdä vääryyttä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[prejudicar]], [[offender]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[lesar]], [[prejudicar]], [[ofender]]

===Derived terms===
*[[wrong number]]
*[[wrong side out]]
*[[wrong-foot]]
*[[wrong-headed]]
*[[wrongdoing]]
*[[wronger]]
*[[wrongfully]]

===See also===
*[[wrong'd]]
*[[wrung]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

----
==Dutch==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/vroŋ/}}

===Verb===
'''wrong'''
# Past tense singular of ''[[wringen]]'': '''[[wrung]]'''.

[[fr:wrong]]
[[io:wrong]]
[[it:wrong]]
[[hu:wrong]]
[[fi:wrong]]