==Chinese==
===Mandarin===
[[Pinyin]]: bīng dòng sān chǐ, fēi yī rì zhī hán

===Etymology===
Literally: Three feet of ice is not the result of one cold day.

===Proverb===
'''[[冰]][[凍]][[三]][[尺]]，[[非]][[一]][[日]][[之]][[寒]]'''

# [[Rome wasn't built in a day]].
#One can not become an expert in a difficult subject overnight. 
#: ''[[天]][[阿]]，[[如此]][[美景]]，[[確]][[是]][[一]][[令]][[人]][[望而卻步]][[的]][[是非]][[之]][[地]]。[[乖乖]][[的]][[回到]][[出生地]]，[[打開]][[地圖]]，[[尋找]][[練功]][[場所]]。[[涉足]][[江湖]]，[[沒有]][[點]][[一技之長]]，[[死於非命]][[怨]][[得]][[了]][[誰]][[呢]]？[[拼命]][[地]][[打怪]]，[[升級]]，[[可是]]，[[好]][[漫長]][[埃哎]]，'''冰凍三尺非一日之寒'''。[[十年]][[磨]][[劍]][[只]][[為]][[一朝成名]]。''
#: ''Wow, such beautiful scenery; in fact, it was a land of bandits and thieves that could cause a man to shrink back at the sight.  Obediently, I returned to the place of my birth, opened a map, and looked for a place where I could learn how to fight.  But once you set foot in the world of itinerant bandit warriors, if you have no [[kung fu]] fighting proficiency to begin with, who else can you blame but yourself if you get killed?  I went to great lengths at the risk of life and limb, rising through the ranks; but, it seemed like it was taking forever.  Alas, '''one cannot become an expert overnight'''.  I cultivated my skills with the sword for ten years, all to make a name for myself someday.''

===Alternate forms===
[[冰冻三尺，非一日之寒]]''' ([[Simplified Chinese]])

===Reference===
*[http://games.sina.com.cn/z/xlqy/2004-07-21/155031.shtml Excerpt from a description of an on-line video game called "仙侣幻梦" ("Celestial Companion Fantasy")], by Feng Wuyu (风无语), 2004-07-21 10:54

===[[Attestation]]===
*''Less than 2,000 hits may be an indicator that this term is not commonly used.''
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%86%B0%E5%87%8D%E4%B8%89%E5%B0%BA%EF%BC%8C%E9%9D%9E%E4%B8%80%E6%97%A5%E4%B9%8B%E5%AF%92&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits .cn]
**[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E5%86%B0%E5%87%8D%E4%B8%89%E5%B0%BA%EF%BC%8C%E9%9D%9E%E4%B8%80%E6%97%A5%E4%B9%8B%E5%AF%92&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]

[[Category:zh-tw:Proverbs]]