==English==

===Etymology===
Confer Late German ''[[babbeln]]''; {{D.}} ''[[babbelen]]''; German ''[[bappeln]]'', ''[[bappern]]''; {{F.}} ''[[babiller]]''; Italian ''[[babbolare]]''; probable origin, to keep saying ''ba'', imitative of a child learning to talk; confer [[tower of Babel]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-babble.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
'''babble'''  (''plural:'' '''[[babbles]]''')
# [[Idle]] talk; [[senseless]] [[prattle]]; [[gabble]]; [[twaddle]]. "This is mere moral '''babble'''." [[Milton]].
# [[Inarticulate]] [[speech]], such as was used at the building the tower of Babel; constant or confused [[murmur]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The '''babble''' of our young children. - [[Darwin]].
#:*The '''babble''' of the stream. - [[Tennyson]].

====Translations====
'''Idle talk'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Geplapper]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Inarticulate speech'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Brabbeln]] {{n}}, [[Murmeln]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[brabbelen]], [[murmelen]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*Babblement ([[Hawthorne]])
*Babblery ([[Sir Thomas More]])

===Intransitive Verb===
{{en-verb|babbl|ing}}

# To [[utter]] words indistinctly or unintelligibly; to utter [[inarticulate]] [[sound]]s; as, a child ''babbles''.
# To [[talk]] [[incoherently]]; to utter unmeaning words.
# To talk much; to [[chatter]]; to [[prate]].
# To make a continuous [[murmur]]ing noise, as shallow water running over stones.
#:*In every '''babbling''' brook he finds a friend. - [[Wordsworth]].
#:''Hounds are said to '''babble,''' or to be '''babbling,''' when they are too noisy after having found a good scent.''

====Translations====
'''To utter words indistinctly'''
{{top}}
*German: [[brabbeln]], [[murmeln]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To talk much'''
{{top}}
*German: [[schwätzen]], [[plappern]], [[babbeln]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To make a continuous murmuring noise, as shallow water running over stones.'''
{{top}}
*German: [[plätschern]], [[gurgeln]]
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[kabbelen]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive Verb===
{{en-verb|babbl|ing}}

# To utter in an indistinct or incoherent way; to repeat, as words, in a childish way without understanding.
#:*These words he used to '''babble''' in all companies. - [[Arbuthnot]].
# To disclose by too free talk, as a secret.


[[Category:Onomatopoeia]]

[[fr:babble]]
[[io:babble]]
[[fi:babble]]
[[zh:babble]]