==English==
===Noun===
'''back''' ([[backs]])

#the side of something opposite the front or useful side; the reverse side; the side that is not normally seen. 
#that which is farthest away from the front.
#:''He sat in the back of the room''.
#the part of something that goes last.
#:''The car was near the back of the train''.
#the rear of body, especially the part between the neck and the end of the spine and opposite the chest and belly.
#in some team sports, a position behind most players on the team.

====Derived terms====
*[[backpack]]
*[[backseat]]
*[[bareback]]
*[[horseback]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[achterkant]] (1,2,3), [[achter]] (1,2), [[rug]] (4), [[verdediger]] (5), [[achterhoedespeler]] (5)
*French: [[derrière]] ''m'', [[revers]] ''m'' (1); [[fond]] ''m'' (2); [[fin]] ''f'' (3); [[dos]] ''m'' (4); [[arrière]] ''m'' (5)
*German: [[Rückseite]] ''f'' (1); [[Rücken]] ''m'' (4); [[Verteidiger]] ''m'' (5)  
*[[Hebrew]]: [[:he:גב|גב]] /gav/
*Italian: [[dietro]] ''m'', [[rovescio]] ''m'' (1); [[fondo]] ''m'' (2); [[dietro]] ''m'' (3); (''of a person'') [[schiena]] ''f'', (''of an animal'') [[dorso]], [[schiena]] (4); [[terzino]] (5)
*Indonesian: [[belakang]] (1,2,3,5); [[punggung]] (4)
*Latin: [[dorsum]] ''n'' (4)
*Portuguese: [[dorso]] ''m'', [[reverso]] ''m'' (1); parte de trás ''f'' (3); (''of a person'') [[costas]] ''f pl'', (''of an animal'') [[lombo]](4); [[zagueiro]] ''m'', [[beque]] ''m'' (5)
*[[Russian]]: [[:ru:спина|спина]] /spina/, [[:ru:спинка|спинка]] /spinka/
*Spanish: [[espalda]] ''f'' (4)

===Verb===
''Inflected forms'': backed, [[backing]], backs.

#to go in the reverse direction.
#:''The train backed into the station''.
#to support.
#:''I back you all the way''.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[achteruit]] [[gaan]] (1), achteruit [[rijden]] (1), [[steunen]] (2)
*French: (''person'') [[reculer]], (''vehicle'') [[faire]] [[marche]] [[arrière]] (1); [[soutenir]] (2)
*German: (''vehicle'') [[zurücksetzen]] (1); [[]] (2)
*Indonesian: [[mundur]] (1); [[dukung]] (2)
*Italian: ''vehicle'') [[far]] [[marcia]] [[indietro]] (1); [[appoggiare]] (2)
*Portuguese: (''vehicle'') (''Portuguese Portuguese'') [[fazer]] [[marcha]] [[atrás]], (''Brazilian Portuguese'') [[fazer]] [[marcha-à-ré]] (1); [[apoiar]] (2)
*Spanish: ''vehicle'' [[ir]] [[marcha]] [[atrás]] (1); [[respaldar]] (2)

===Adverb===
'''back'''

#to a previous condition or place.
#:''He gave back the money''.
#in a manner that impedes.
#:''Fear held him back''.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[terug]] (1), [[tegen]] (2)

===Adjective===
'''back'''

#toward the rear.
#:''the back door''.
#not current.
#:''back issues of  magazine''.
#remote; far from the main area.
#:''a back road''.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[achter]] (1), [[oude]] (2), [[achteraf]] (3)
*French: (''door'') de derrière (1); (''road'') écarté (3)

====Related terms====
*[[back away]]
*[[backbiting]]
*[[back down]]
*[[backdrop]]
*[[backfire]]
*[[background]]
*[[backlog]]
*[[back pay]]
*[[back up]]

==[[multilingual associations]]==
*[[Russian]]: [[:ru:бок|бок]] о бок /bok o bok/ ([[side]] by side) - [[back]] to back

[[it:back]]