{{dicdef}}

:''For other uses of term, see [[Bait]]''
A '''bait and switch''' is a form of [[fraud]] in which the fraudster lures in customers by [[advertising]] a good at an unprofitably low price, then reveals to potential customers that the advertised good is not available but that a substitute good is.  The goal of the bait-and-switch is to convince some buyers to purchase the substitute good as a means of avoiding disappointment over not getting the bait, or as a way to recover [[sunk cost]]s expended to try to obtain the bait. It suggests that the seller will not show the original product or product advertised but instead will demonstrate a more expensive product.

Other advertising practices, such as the use of [[loss leader]]s or the use of [[sales techniques]] to steer customers away from low-profit items, depend on many of the same psychological mechanisms as a bait and switch. In the [[United States]], [[court]]s have held that the purveyor using a bait and switch operation may be subject to a [[lawsuit]] by customers for [[false advertising]], and can be sued for [[trademark infringement]] by competing manufacturers, retailers, and others who profit from the sale of the product used as bait. However, no [[cause of action]] will exist if the purveyor is capable of actually selling the goods advertised, but aggressively pushes a competing product.

Likewise, advertising a sale while intending to stock a limited amount of, and thereby sell out, the loss-leading item advertised is legal in the United States.  The purveyor can escape liability if they make clear in their advertisements that quantities of items for which a sale is offered are limited.

Deceptive [[e-mail]] offers that shunt the user to [[porn]] sites have been described as bait-and-switch scams. [http://www.usatoday.com/tech/columnist/2002/05/02/sinrod.htm]


==External link== 
* [http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/guides/baitads-gd.htm Guides against "bait" advertising] from the U.S. [[Federal Trade Commission]]. 


[[Category:Fraud]]
[[Category:Advertising]]
[[Category:Business ethics]]