==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[ballanda]]
*[[ballander]]
===Etymology===
Makasar ''[[balanda#Makasar|balanda]]'', from Malay ''[[belanda]]'', from Dutch ''[[Hollander]]''.
===Noun===
'''balanda'''

# (''Australian Aboriginal, [[Arnhem Land]]'') a [[white]] person, a [[European]]
===Quotations===
*'''1845,''' [[w:Ludwig Leichhardt|Ludwig Leichhardt]], ''Journal of an Overland Expedition in Australia''
*:They knew the white people of Victoria, and called them '''Balanda''', which is nothing more than ‘Hollanders’; a name used by the Malays, from whom they received it.
*'''1915,''' E. R. Masson, ''Untamed Territory''
*:The blacks rushed up to the house calling ‘'''Ballanda''', '''Ballanda'''’—white man—and the Boss and Missus ran out.
*'''1943,''' W. E. Harney, ''Taboo''
*:On the natives’ side are ... fear of the '''Ballander'''-whiteman and the thought of losing their country.
*'''1978,''' J. Mirritji, ''My People’s Life''
*:Then I understood that this ‘'''balanda'''’ means people with skins like the white clay.
*'''1987,''' G. Francis, ''God’s Best Country''
*:That’s the only road back for them ... to be rid of all your partonising, domineering '''balanda''' ways.
*'''1989,''' B. Neidjie, ''Story About Feeling''
*:'''Balanda'''! If Aborigine e says something ... e want to stop im '''Balanda''' ... e might listen.
*'''1993,''' ''Canberra Times,'' 28 Jan.
*:There are a lot of fans both '''balanda''' ''white'' and yolngu (east Arnhem Land Aborigines).

[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:Malay derivations]]
[[Category:Dutch derivations]]