{{not verified}}
A '''baller''' is a slang term for someone who has "made it to the bigtime", or a person who is living a flashy luxurious lifestyle.  It originated from [[inner city]] amateur athletes who made it to the [[Major professional sports league|professional leagues]] playing [[baseball]] or [[basketball]]. It is now commonly used to refer to a [[posh]] [[thug]], [[pimp]] or [[gangster]], or one who imitates this lifestyle.

Ballers spend vast amounts of money on such things as champagne, classy restaurants, clubbing, jewellery, expensive cars, clothing, high-stakes poker and other forms of gambling. It is usually used to refer to men; they are portrayed as sharply-dressed, with beautiful women and rich taste.

''Baller'' is used as both a [[noun]] and an [[adjective]]. Colloquially, it is often replaced with ''hella b'', meaning ''hella baller'', and frequently abbreviated to "balla" due to its pronunciation. It is usually a compliment, and has taken on a meaning similar to ''cool''. It is also used sarcastically to refer to something that is humorously appealing or to poke fun at [[Gangster rap|gangsta]] slang.

The term was widely introduced to [[popular culture]] with the [[1995]] hit [[Single (music)|single]] by [[Skee-Lo]] "I Wish".

==Song References==

*'''[[Jermaine Dupri]] and [[Nate Dogg]]''' Ballin Outta Control ''(covers by '''[[Big Tymers]] ft. [[Ludacris]]''', '''[[Lil Flip]]''', and '''[[E-40]]''')''
*'''[[Lil' Troy]]''' Wanna Be A Baller
*'''[[Chingy]]''' Balla Baby
*'''[[Skee-Lo]]''' I Wish
*'''[[Real Slim Nate]] and [[Stiff Dawg]]''' I Wish ([[remix]])
*'''[[Destiny's Child]]''' Jumpin'
*'''[[Jay-Z]]''' Can I Get A
*'''Surreal''' Wish I Wazza Balla 
*'''[[Chamillionaire]]''' No Snitchin
*'''[[Puff Daddy and The Family]]''' All About the Benjamins
*'''[[2Pac]]''' Str8 Ballin'
*'''[[M A Quinones III]]''' Born to Mack'
*'''[[cope]]''' Mackin these tricks on the daily'
{{Vocab-stub}}