==English==
=== Etymology ===
This phrase was coined before or during [[WWII|World War Two]] by American [[aircraft]] pilots.  The term "balls" describes the knobs atop the engine control levers on the [[engine quadrant]].  The phrase "to the wall" describes the direction in which to push the control levers for full or maximum performance.

The engine quadrant may include the [[throttle]] control, [[fuel mixture]] control, [[propellor pitch]] control, and [[carburetor heat]] control.  The individual controls are levers or stalks with round knobs on their tops.  Typically, those knobs spherical in shape.

In the design of single-engine aircraft, with an engine in the front, there exists a firewall that separates the engine from the cockpit. The orientation of this [[firewall]] is therefore forward of the cockpit.

The design convention for engine controls was (and is) to make the position of 'maximum performance' one where the lever is pushed toward the firewall to its forward most limit.  For a throttle, this results in a wide open throttle.  For mixture control, this means 'full rich.' For the propellor, it means minimum pitch or maximum speed.  For carburetor heat, it means the carburetor heat is all the way off.

When maximum performance is required from an aircraft (when taking off, recovering from a stall, or entering aerial combat maneuvers) a pilot need not think about it, or resort to a checklist.  The procedure is simply to push all control lever 'balls' toward the firewall. To put the "balls to the wall" was to advance the levers all the way forward to their respective positions of maximum performance, making the aircraft fly or climb with maximum performance. 

Current colloquial usage sometimes means to carry out an action as quickly as possible.

===Idiom===
'''[[balls]] [[to]] the [[wall]]'''
#(''United States English, slang'') A state of being at a maximum level of performance or effort.  To do something 'balls to the wall' is to do it at the extreme upper limit of preformance or effort, without regard to risk.  To utilize a machine such as flying an aircraft 'balls to the wall' is to push it to its maximum performance capabilities (as with a 'full throttle'), perhaps risking exceeding its design limitations.
#(''United States English, slang'') To carry out an action as fast as possbile