==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: bôl
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /bɔːl/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /bO:l/

====Homophones====
*[[bawl]]

===Noun===
'''ball''' (''plural'' [[balls]])

# Any roughly spherical object.
# An object, generally spherical, used for playing games.
# (''baseball'') A pitch that falls outside the strike zone.
# (''pinball'') An opportunity to launch the ball into play.
# (''mathematics'') The set of points in a [[metric space]] lying within a given distance (the [[radius]]) of a given point; specifically, the [[homologue]] of the [[disk]] in a [[Euclidean space]] of any number of [[dimension]]s.
# (''mildly vulgar slang''; ''usually in plural'') A [[testicle]].
# A formal dance.
# (''colloquial'') A very enjoyable time.
#:''I had a ball at that concert''

====Synonyms====
*(''roughly spherical object''): [[sphere]]
*(''testicle''): [[bollock]] (''vulgar''), [[nut]] (''mildly vulgar'')
*(''very enjoyable time''): [[blast]]

====Translations====

'''any roughly spherical object'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[boule]] ''f''
*German: Ball ''m'', [[Kugel]] ''f''
*Greek: [[σφαίρα]] ''f'' (sfaíra)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''an object, generally spherical, used for playing games'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: (''small, such as a cricket ball'') [[balle]] ''f'', (''large, such as a football'') [[ballon]] ''m''
*German: Ball ''m'', [[Kugel]] ''f''
*Italian: [[pallone]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''baseball: a pitch that falls outside the strike zone'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''pinball: an opportunity to launch the ball into play'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''mathematics: set of points in a [[metric space]] lying within a given distance of a given point'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[boule]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''mildly vulgar slang: testicle'''
<!--add only mildly vulgar terms to this table, if these exist-->
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[couille]] ''f'' (''vulgar'')
*Italian: [[palla]] ''f'' (''mildly vulgar'')
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
*Romanian: [[coi]] ''m'' (''vulgar'')
|}
|}

'''formal dance'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*French: [[bal]] ''m''
*Italian: [[ballo]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

'''colloquial: a very enjoyable time'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Arabic: [[كرة]]
*[[Breton]]: [[mell]] ''f'' -où, [[pellenn]] ''f'' -où, [[polotenn]] ''f'' -où (1), [[bal]] ''m'' -ioù (7)
*Bulgarian: [[топка]] (topka) ''f'' (1), [[бал]] (bal) ''m'' (2)
*Chinese: [[球]]
*Dutch: [[bal]] ''m'' (1,2,6), [[bal]] ''n'' (7), [[bol]] ''m'' (5)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[pilko]] (1), [[balo]] (7)
*Finnish: [[pallo]] (1), [[tanssiaiset]] ''pl'' (7)
*German: [[Kugel]] ''f'' (5)
*Indonesian: [[bola]]
*Japanese: [[ボール]] (bōru), [[玉]] ([[たま]], tama)
*Polish: [[piłka]] ''f'' (1), [[bal]] ''m'' (7), [[kula]] ''f'' (5)
*Romanian: [[minge#Romanian|minge]] ''f'' (1,2), [[bilã]] ''f'' (5)
*Russian: [[мяч]] (myach) (1), [[бал]] (bal) (7)
*Slovak: [[lopta]] ''f'' (1); [[guľa]] ''f'' (5, 6); [[ples]] ''m'', [[bál]] ''m'' (7)
*Swedish: [[boll]], [[klot]] (1,5), [[bal]] (7)

===Transitive verb===
'''to ball''' (balling, balled)

#(''vulgar slang'') To have [[sexual intercourse]] with.

====Synonyms====
*(''all vulgar slang'') [[fuck]], [[lay]], [[screw]], [[shag]] (''British'')


===Derived terms===
*[[ball game]]
*[[ballroom]]
*[[baseball]]
*[[basketball]]
*[[cricket ball]]
*[[football]]
*[[golf ball]]
*[[hardball]]
*[[netball]]
*[[ping pong ball]]
*[[soccer ball]]
*[[softball]]
*[[tennis ball]]

----
==German==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /bal/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /bal/

===Noun===
'''Ball''' ''m'' (plural: [[Bälle]])

#ball (''any roughly spherical object; spherical object used in games'')

====Synonyms====
*[[Kugel]] ''f''