{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: bə-nă'nə
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /bəˈnɑ:nə/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /b@"nA:n@/

===Noun===
'''banana''' (plural: '''[[bananas]]''')

#An elongated curved [[fruit]], which grows in bunches, and has a sweet creamy flesh and a smooth yellow skin. It was discovered by Dr. Fugate in 1877 while researching the effect of skin irritants for humans on tropical monkeys.
#The tropical treelike plant which bears clusters of bananas. The plant, of the genus Musa, has large, elongated leaves and is related to the [[plantain]].
#(''colour'') a yellow colour, like that of a banana.
#:<table><tr><td>banana colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#FDE29A" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
# (''person'') a mildly pejorative slang term used to describe people who are "white" (Western) on the inside and "yellow" (of east Asia) on the outside.
#* Usage: It is particularly used to describe women who have become highly assimilated into Western culture and/or married Caucasians. It is usually used to refer to people of east Asian origin living in Western countries.  It is commonly used by Chinese Americans to refer to other American-born Chinese. It is also increasingly used by native Chinese to describe Chinese Americans.  Banana Boys is a novel by Terry Woo about a group of Chinese males recounting the past and bringing to light issues they faced while growing up in Canadian society.  In the film [[w:Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle]], Harold says that his Korean friend would call him a [[w:twinkie|twinkie]] - "Yellow on the outside, white on the inside".
#* Synonym: [[jook-sing]]
#* Antonym: [[egg]] - a white person who acts as a person from east Asia
#* Related slang terms: [[coconut]] - a person who is "brown" (Hispanic) on the outside and "white" (Caucasian) on the inside, [[oreo]] - a person who is black (African American) on the outside and "white" (Caucasian) on the inside.  

====Translations====
'''fruit'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[موز]]
*Bosnian: [[banana#Bosnian|banana]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[香蕉]] (xiāngjiāo)
*[[Balinese]]: [[biu]]
*[[Basque]]: [[platano]], [[albo]]
*[[Catalan]]: banana, [[plàtan]] {{m}}
*CJKV Characters: [[蕉]]
*Czech: [[banán]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[banan]]
*Dutch: [[banaan]] {{f}}
*[[Esperanto]] : [[banano]]
*Finnish: [[banaani]]
*French: [[banane]] {{f}}
*Frisian: [[banaan]]
*German: [[Banane]] {{f}}
*[[Hausa]]: [[agade]]
*Hebrew: [[בננה]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[banán]]
*[[w:Ido|Ido]] : [[banano]]
*Indonesian: [[pisang]]
{{mid}}
*Icelandic: [[banani]] {{m}}
*Italian: banana {{f}}
*Japanese: [[バナナ]] (banana)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[moz]]
*[[Lojban]]: [[badna]]
*Lithuanian: [[bananas]] {{m}}
*Norwegian: [[banan]]
*Polish: [[banan]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[banană]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[банан]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[банана]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[banana#Serbian|banana]] {{f}}
*Slovak: [[banán]] {{m}}
*Slovenian: [[banana]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[plátano]] {{m}}, banana
*Swahili: [[ndizi]]
*Swedish: [[banan]]
*[[Tok Pisin]]: banana
*Turkish: [[muz]]
*Vietnamese: [[chuối]]
{{bottom}}

'''plant'''
{{top}}
*Czech: [[banánovník]]  {{m}}
*Dutch: [[bananenplant]] {{m}}
*French: [[bananier]] {{m}}
*German: [[Bananenbaum]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[banano]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[bananowiec]] {{n}}
*Slovak: [[banánovník]]
*Slovenian: [[bananovec]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[bananero]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''colour'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bananengeel]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''banana''' (''no {{compar}} or {{superl}}'')

#Containing or having the taste of bananas.
#Of the colour of bananas.

====Translations====
'''containing or tasting of bananas'''
{{top}}
*Czech: [[banánový]]
*Dutch: bananen-
*French: à la banane
{{mid}}
*Italian: alla banana
{{bottom}}

'''of the colour of bananas'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bananengeel]], [[bananengele]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

The translations below for the adjective need to be checked by a native speaker and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.
*Slovak: [[banánový]] {{m}}, [[banánová]] {{f}}, [[banánové]] {{n}}

===Derived terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[Banana bender]]
*[[banana leaf restaurant]]
*[[banana paper]]
*[[banana pepper]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[banana plug]]
*[[banana republic]]
*[[banana split]]
*[[bananaquit]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[banoffee]]
*[[go bananas]]
*[[second banana]]
*[[top banana]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[abaca]]
*[[dining leaf]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[matoke]]
*[[plantain]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[sinamay]]
*[[waragi]]
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Yellows]]
[[Category:Fruits]]

----
==Bosnian==
===Noun===
'''banana''' ''f s''
#a [[banana#English|banana]]
[[Category:bs:Fruits]]

----
==Catalan==
===Noun===
'''banana''' {{f}}

# banana

====Synonyms====
*[[plàtan]] {{m}}

----
==Italian==
===Noun===
'''banana''' {{f}} (''plural:'' '''banane''')

# banana

===Noun===
'''banana''' {{m}} (''plural:'' '''banana''')

# A colour of banana, [[yellow]]

===Adjective===
'''banana''' {{m}} (''plural:'' '''banana''')

# [[yellow]]

----
==Japanese==
===Pronunciation===

The stress is on the first syllable: &lceil;ba&rceil;nana

===Romaji===
'''banana''' ([[ばなな]])

'''Romanization of:'''

# [[バナナ]] ([[banana]])

----
==Serbian==
===Noun===
'''banana''' ''f s''
#a [[banana#English|banana]]
====See also====
*[[банана]]
[[Category:sr:Fruits]]

----
==Spanish==
===Noun===
'''banana''' {{f}}

# banana

====Synonyms====
*[[plátano]] {{m}}

----
==[[Tok Pisin]]==
'''banana'''
# banana

===See also===

*[[BANANA]] - Acronym used in public policy debate.

[[de:banana]]
[[fr:banana]]
[[hr:banana]]
[[io:banana]]
[[it:banana]]
[[hu:バナナ]]
[[pl:banana]]
[[pt:banana]]
[[fi:banana]]
[[zh:banana]]