==English==

===Noun===
'''band'''

# A strip of material wrapped around things to hold them together.
# A strip along the spine of a book where the pages are attached.
# A group of musicians, especially (a) wind and percussion players, or (b) rock musicians.
# A group of people loosely united for a common purpose (''a band of thieves'').
# (''Tech.'') A part of radio [[spectrum]].
# {{Physics}} A group of [[energy]] [[level]]s in a [[solid state]] material. ''Valence band'', ''conduction band''.

====Translations====

*Bulgarian: [[връзка]] ''f'' (1), [[банда]] ''f'' (3, 4), [[група]] ''f'' (3, 4)
*Dutch: band ''m'' (1,5,6), [[boekenrug]] ''m'' (2), [[groep]] ''f'' (3), [[ensemble]] ''n'' (3), [[bende]] ''f'' (4)
*Finnish: [[nauha]] (1), [[selkämys]] (2), [[yhtye]] (3), [[bändi]] (3b), [[joukko]] (4), [[joukkio]] (4), [[aallonpituusalue]] (5), [[vyö]] (6)
*German: Band ''n'' (1), Band (f) (3), [[Musikkapelle]] ''f'' (3), [[Gruppe]] ''f'' (4), Band ''n'' (5), [[ Frequenzbereich]] ''m'' (5)
*Polish: [[taśma]] ''f'' (1), [[grzbiet]] ''m'' (2), [[orkiestra]] ''f'', [[zespół]] ''m'' (3), [[banda]] ''f'' (4), [[pasmo]] ''n'' (5,6)
*Swedish: [[band]] (1,3-6)

===Intransitive verb===
'''band'''

# To group together for a common purpose.

====Translations====

*Bulgarian: [[групирам]]
*Finnish: [[liittyä]] (1), [[yhdistyä]] (1)
*German: sich [[vereinigen]]

===Transitive verb===
'''band'''

# To fasten together with a band.
# (''Ornithology'') To fasten an identifying band around (a bird's) leg.

====Translations====

*Bulgarian: [[свързвам]] (1)
*Finnish: [[sitoa]] (1), [[rengastaa]] (2)
*German: [[binden]] (1), [[beringen]] (2)
*Swedish: [[ringmärka]] (2)

==Dutch==

===Noun===
#band (a group of musicians)
#[[tyre]] (e.g. a car tyre)
#[[tape]] (magnetic tape, video tape)
#[[bank]] (the bank of a pool table)
#[[belt]] (a martial arts belt)
#[[ribbon]]
#[[bond]], [[tie]] 
# (''Tech.'') A part of radio spectrum

===Noun===
'''band''' ''m'' (Plural: [[banden]], diminutive: [[bandje]])

#[[connection]], [[liaison]], [[bond]]
# A strip of material wrapped around things to hold them together.
#[[tire]]
# (''Tech.'') A part of radio [[spectrum]].
# (''Physics'') A group of energy levels in a solid state material.

===Related words===
[[verband]], [[autoband]] (3)

==German==
===Noun===
'''Band''' ''m'' (plural [[Bände]])

# A [[volume]] of a multi-volume set of books

===Noun===
'''Band''' ''f'' (plural [[Bands]])

# A modern music band.

===Noun===
'''Band''' ''n'' (plural [[Bande]])

# A band of the spectrum.

===Noun===
'''Band''' ''n'' (plural [[Bänder]])

# [[Tape]] or [[ribbon]].
# (''Anatomy'') A [[ligament]].
# A band or [[tie]] holding items together.
# A [[belt]] (conveyor belt, fan belt, etc.)

===Verb===
'''band'''

# Past tense of [[binden]].

[[it:band]]
[[pl:Band]]