==English==
===Pronunciation===
*bä(r)gən, /ˈbɑː(r)ɡən/, /<tt>"ba:(r)g@n</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɑː(r)ɡən|Rhymes: -ɑː(r)ɡən]]

===Noun===
# An agreement between parties concerning the sale of property; or a contract by which one party [[bind]]s himself to transfer the right to some property for a consideration, and the other party binds himself to receive the property and pay the consideration.
#: A contract is a bargain that is legally binding.     --[[w:Wharton]].
# An agreement or stipulation; mutual [[pledge]].
#: And whon your honors mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith. --[[w:Shak]].
# A purchase; also ( when not qualified), a gainful transaction; an advantageous purchase; as, to buy a thing at a bargain.
# The thing stipulated or purchased; also, anything bought cheap.
#: She was too fond of her most filthy bargain. --[[w:Shak]].
::{Bargain and sale} ([[Law]]), a species of conveyance, by which   the bargainor contracts to convey the lands to the bargainee, and becomes by such contract a trustee for and seized to the use of the bargainee. The statute then completes the purchase; i. e., the bargain vests the use, and the statute vests the possession. --[[w:Blackstone]].
::{Into the bargain}, over and above what is stipulated;besides.
::{To sell bargains}, to make saucy (usually indelicate) repartees. [Obs.] --[[w:Swift]].
::{To strike a bargain}, to reach or ratify an agreement. ``A  bargain was struck.'' --Macaulay.

====Synonyms====
*[[contract]]
*[[stipulation]]
*[[purchase]]
*[[engagement]]

===Verb===
====Intransitive====

#To make a bargain; to make a contract for the exchange of
property or services; -- followed by with and for; as, to
bargain with a farmer for a cow.
#:So worthless peasants bargain for their wives. --[[w:Shak]].

=== Transitive===
[[Imp.]] & [[p. p.]] Bargained; [[p. pr.]] & [[vb. n.]]: bargaining.

#To transfer for a consideration; to barter; to trade; as, to bargain one horse for another.

::{To bargain away}, to dispose of in a bargain; -- usually with a sense of loss or disadvantage; as, to bargain away one's birthright. ''The heir . . . had somehow bargained away the estate.'' --[[w:G. Eliot]].

[[it:bargain]]
[[fi:Bargain]]