{{rfc}}
==English==
===Etymology 1===
From Middle English '''bark''' < Old Norse '''[[börkr]]''' (tree bark) < Proto-Germanic '''[[*barkuz]]'''; probably related to Proto-Germanic '''[[*berkjon]]''' (birch) < Proto-Indo-European '''[[*bhergo]]''' < PIE base '''[[*bhereg-]]''' (to gleam, white).
Akin to Danish and Swedish ''bark'', Icelandic ''börkr'', Low German ''borke''.

===Etymology 2===
From Middle English '''[[berken]]''' (to bark) < Old English '''[[beorcan]]''' < Proto-Germanic '''[[*berkanan]]''', of echoic origin. Akin to Icelandic ''berkja''.

===Etymology 3===
From Middle English '''barke''' (boat) < Middle French '''[[barque]]''' < Late Latin '''[[barca]]''' < Vulgar Latin '''[[*barica]]''' < Greek '''[[βάρις]]''' (Egyptian boat) < Coptic '''[[bari]]''' (small boat).

===Pronunciation===

===Homophones===
*[[barque]] <!-- a synonym too -->

===Noun===
'''bark'''

#the exterior covering of the trunk and branches of a tree; the rind.
#:Usage: usually uncountable; may be countable when referring to the barks of different types of tree.
#(''medicine'') [[Peruvian Bark]] or [[Jesuit's bark]], the bark of the [[cinchona]] from which [[quinine]] is produced.

====Quotations====
'''figurative: abrupt loud vocal utterance'''
*'''1921?''': Fox’s clumsy figure, negligently dressed in blue and buff, seemed unprepossessing; only his shaggy eyebrows added to the expression of his face; his voice would rise to a bark in excitement. &mdash; ''The Cambridge History of English and American Literature, Vol XI,''

'''barque'''
*'''1880s??''': Whether my bark went down at sea, Whether she met with gales, ... &mdash; Emily Dickinson (1830–86), ''Poems''

====Related terms====
* [[ringbark]]
* [[paperbark]]
* [[stringybark]]

====Translations====
'''tree bark''' (''noun'')
{{top}}
*[[Afrikaans]]: [[bas]]
*Bulgarian: [[кора]] (kora) {{f}}
*Czech: [[kůra]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[bark#Danish|bark]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[schors]] {{f}}, [[bast]] {{f}}
*Estonian: [[koor]]
*Finnish: [[kaarna]]
*French: [[écorce]] {{f}} (1,2)
*German: [[Rinde]] {{f}}, [[Rinden]] {{p}}
*Hungarian: [[kéreg]]
*Italian: [[scorza]] {{f}}, [[corteccia]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[樹皮]] ([[じゅひ]], juhi), [[木の皮]] ([[きのかわ]], ki no kawá)
*Korean: [[나무]][[껍질]] (namu kkeopjil), [[수피]] (supi)
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[cortex]] (corticis) {{m}} and {{f}}
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[wanagek]], [[wanagekwag]] {{p}}
*Polish: [[kora]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[casca]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[кора]] (korá) {{f}}, [[коры]] (korý) {{p}}
*Slovene: [[lubje]] {{n}}, [[skorja]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[corteza]] {{f}}
*Swahili: [[chamba]] ''sg'', [[vyamba]] {{p}}, [[gome]] ''sg'', [[magome]] {{p}} (noun 5/6)''
*Swedish: [[bark#Swedish|bark]] {{c}}
*Thai: [[เปลือก]] (pleùùak), [[เปลือกไม้]] (pleùùak máái)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''to bark'''

#To strip the bark from; to peel.
#To abrade or rub off any outer covering from; as to ''bark'' one's heel.
#To girdle. See [[Girdle]]
#To cover or inclose with bark, or as with bark; as, to ''bark'' the roof of a hut.

====Translations====
To strip the bark from; to peel.
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[обелвам кора на]] (obelvam kora na)
*Danish [[afbarke]]
*Dutch: [[ontschorsen]]
*German: [[abrinden]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[樹皮を剥ぐ]] ([[じゅひをはぐ]], juhi o hágu
*Russian: [[окоривать]] (okorivát'), [[окорять]] (okorját')
*Spanish: [[descortezar]]
*Swedish: [[barka]]
{{bottom}}

'''To abrade or rub off any outer covering from; as to ''bark'' one's heel'''
{{top}}
*Danish [[skrubbe]]
*Dutch: [[schrapen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


'''To girdle'''
{{See|girdle}}

'''To cover or inclose with bark, or as with bark; as, to ''bark'' the roof of a hut'''
{{top}}
*Danish [[tække]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''bark'''

#The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog
#A similar sound made by some other animals.
#(''figurative'') abrupt loud vocal utterance.

====Translations====
'''short, loud, explosive utterance'''
{{top}}
*[[Afrikaans]]: [[blaf]], [[geblaf]]
*Bulgarian: [[лай]] (laj) {{m}}
*Danish [[gøen]] {{c}}
*Dutch: [[geblaf]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[haukku]]
*French: [[aboiement]] {{m}}
*German: [[Gebell]] {{n}}
*Hungarian: [[ugatás]]
*Italian: [[abbaiamento]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[吠え声]] ([[ほえごえ]], hoegóe)
*Latin: [[latratus]] {{m}}
*[[Novial]]: [[aboyo]]
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[migiwin]]
*Portuguese: [[latido]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[лай]] (laj) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[lajež]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[ladrido]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[skall]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''to bark'''

#To make a short, loud, explosive noise with the vocal organs; &mdash; said of some animals, but especially of dogs.
#To make a clamor; to make importunate outcries.
#: ''They ''bark'', and say the Scripture maketh heretics.'' &mdash; Tyndale.
#: ''Where there is the ''barking'' of the belly, there no other commands will be heard, much less obeyed.'' &mdash; Fuller.
#To speak sharply.
#: ''The sergeant barked an order.''

====Related terms====
*[[barking]] <!--noun and adj; "barking mad" would be a related term under "barking"-->

====Translations====
'''to bark'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[лая]] (laja)
*Danish: [[gø]] (1), [[råbe op]] (2)
*Dutch: [[blaffen]]
*Estonian: [[haukuma]]
*Finnish: [[haukkua]] (1,3)
*French: [[aboyer]]
*German: [[bellen]](1), [[blaffen]] (3), [[brüllen]] (3)
*Hebrew: [[לנבוח]] (lin’bo’akh) (1)
*Italian: [[abbaiare]] (1)
*Japanese: [[吠える]] ([[ほえる]], hoéru)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[짖다]] (jitda)
*Latin: [[latrare]] (1,3), [[baubor]] (1)
*[[Novial]]: [[aboya]]
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[migi]]
*Portuguese: [[latir]]
*Russian: [[лаять]] / [[залаять]] (lájat’ / zalájat’)
*Slovene: [[lajati]] (1,3)
*Spanish: [[ladrar]] (1,3)
*Swahili: [[-bwekea]]
*Swedish: [[skälla]] (1)
*Tagalog: [[kahol]] (1)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[เห่า]]}} (hào)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''bark''', also [[barque]]

#Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a sailing vessel or boat of any kind. ''Byron.''
#(''Nautical'') A three-masted vessel, having her foremast and mainmast square-rigged, and her mizzenmast schooner-rigged.

====Translations====
'''boat'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bark]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[parkki]]
*French: [[barque]] {{f}}
*Danish: bark (2)
*German: Bark {{f}}, [[Barke]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[bárka]]
*Portuguese: [[barca]] {{f}}, [[barco]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[barca]] {{f}}, [[barco]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----
==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''bark''' {{f}} (''plural:'' [[barken]], ''diminutive:'' [[barkje]])

# larger sailing boat

----
==Polish==
===Noun===
'''bark''' {{m}} (''genitive:'' [[barku]], ''plural:'' [[barki]])

# [[shoulder]]
# [[barque]]

-----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''bark''' {{c}} (''uncountable, definite form:'' [[barken]])

#[[bark#English|bark]]; Covering of the trunk of a tree.

[[ar:bark]]
[[fr:bark]]
[[gl:bark]]
[[io:bark]]
[[it:bark]]
[[nl:bark]]
[[ja:bark]]
[[pl:bark]]
[[pt:bark]]
[[ru:bark]]
[[fi:bark]]
[[zh:bark]]