===The bassoon as an instrument====

The bassoon is roughly eight feet of tubing. Some of the more commonly known manufactueres are Fox, which is based in Indiana, and Heckel, which is based in Germany. Orchestras ordinarily have two to four bassoonists, and possibly a contrabassoonist. The bassoon's sound functions as a link between the brass and woodwinds. Some pieces that include prominent bassoon solo's are igor Stravnisky's Firebird and the Rite of Spring, Ludwig van Beethoven's 8th Symphony, and Nicolai Rimsky-Korsakov's Scherehezade.

===Playing the bassoon===

While other traditional wood winds, such as the clarinet, saxophone, or flute, have a single reed or no reed at all, bassoon is a member of the double reeds. Double reed woodwinds, which include oboe, english horn, and the more recent heckelhorn, are notably more difficult to play because of the sensitivty of the reeds, and the maintenance they require.
Technique for the bassoon is still being developed today. Traditionally, one plays with a notable over bite, but recent innovators like David McGill are redefining bassoon performance by playing with a much more natural embochure.




===Etymology===
From ''[[bass]]'', '''low''' + suffix ''[[-oon]]'', '''large''', akin to ''[[-on]]'' in Romance languages

===Noun===
'''bassoon'''

# a wooden wind  [[musical instrument]]

==== Translations ====
*Czech: [[fagot]] ''m''
*{{nl}}: [[fagot]] ''m''
*{{fi}}: [[fagotti]]
*{{de}}: [[Fagott]] ''n''
*{{it}}: [[fagotto]] ''m''
*{{pt}}: [[fagote]] ''m''
*{{sv}}: [[fagott]]

[[io:Bassoon]]
[[fi:bassoon]]
[[sv:bassoon]]