==English==
===Pronunciation===
*bäs'tə(r)d, /ˈbɑːst(r)d/, /bA:st@(r)d/
*băs'tə(r)d, /ˈbæstə(r)d/, /b{st@(r)d/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# An [[illegitimate]] person. (baby, child, or adult) 
# Previously used as a title. (as in ''William the Bastard'').
# ''(vulgar refering to a man)'' A wrong-doer; a [[sod]]. 
# ''(vulgar refering to a man)'' A contemptible or spiteful person.
# ''(often humorous)'' A man, a fellow. (as in ''lucky bastard'', ''poor bastard'')
# ''(informal)'' : A problem or situation extremely difficult or unpleasant to deal with.
#* Life can be a real '''bastard''' )
# Derogatory term for a variation that is not genuine; something irregular or inferior or of dubious origin; 
#* The architecture was a kind of '''bastard''' suggesting Gothic but not true Gothic" 
# A [[mongrel]]. A cross between different breeds, groups, or varieties.
# A coarse-grade steel file; also : bastard file.
# A long, straight, narrow sword, with an undecorated hilt.
# Mr. Hodges
==== Derived terms ====
*[[bastardise]], [[bastardize]]
*[[bastardised]], [[bastardized]]
*[[bastardisation]], [[bastardization]]
*[[bastardsword]]

==== Translations ====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[:af:baster|baster]]
*Chinese: 2. [[:zh:王八蛋|王八蛋]], zázhǒng ([[:zh:雜種|雜種]])
*Hebrew: [[:he:ממזר|ממזר]] ''m''
*Danish: [[:da:bastard|bastard]]
*Dutch: 1. [[:da:bastaard|bastaard]] ''m''. 2. [[:da:kreng|kreng]] ''n'', [[:da:rotding|rotding]] ''n''. 3. [[:da:kerel|kerel]] ''m'', [[:da:vent|vent]] ''m''. 4. het hangt de keel uit. 4. [[:da:bastaardvijl|bastaardvijl]] ''m'', [[:da:voorvijl|voorvijl]] ''m''
*Finnish: paskiainen
*German: [[:de:Bastard|Bastard]] ''m'' (1,2)
*Polish: [[:pl:bękart|bękart]] ''m'' (1,2, mildly offensive); [[:pl:skurwiel|skurwiel]] ''m'', [[:pl:skurwysyn|skurwysyn]] ''m'' (1,3,4, both very offensive); [[:pl:koleś|koleś]] ''m'' (5); [[:pl:kundel|kundel]] ''m'' (8, especially of a dog, slightly pejorative); [[:pl:mieszaniec|mieszaniec]] (8)
*Slovak: [[:sk:panchart|panchart]] ''m'' (1,2); [[:sk:bastard|bastard]] ''m'' (1,2); [[:sk:rašpľa|rašpľa]] (3)
*Swedish: [[:sv:skitstövel|skitstövel]]
*Turkish: [[piç]]
*[[Urdu]]: [[:ur:حرامى|حرامى]]
{{bottom}}

===Interjection===
'''bastard!'''

# ''(vulgar)'' Exclamation of strong dismay or strong sense of being upset.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*German: [[:de:Bastard|Bastard]]!
*Greek: (1) [[:el:νόθος|νόθος]] (2) [[:el:μπάσταρδος|μπάσταρδος]]
*Turkish: (1) [[:tr:orospu çocuğu|orospu çocuğu]], (2) [[:tr:piç|piç]]

[[da:bastard]]
[[fr:bastard]]
[[io:bastard]]
[[fi:bastard]]
[[vi:bastard]]
[[zh:bastard]]

====References====
http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=bastard
http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=mongrel