==English==

===Etymology===
Old English [[bache]], [[bacche]], from Anglo Saxon [[bacan]] ''to bake''; see also German geb["a]ck and Dutch [[baksel]].

===Pronunciation===
*băch, /bætʃ/, /<tt>b{tS</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ætʃ|Rhymes: -ætʃ]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# Of a process, operating for a defined set of conditions, and then halting.
#:''The plant had two '''batch''' assembly lines for packaging, as well as a continuous feed production line.

====Antonyms====
* [[continuous]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# The quantity of [[bread]] or other baked goods [[bake]]d at one time.
#:''We made a '''batch''' of cookies to take to the party.''
# A quantity of anything produced at [[one]] operation. 
#:''We poured a bucket of water in top, and the ice maker spit out a '''batch''' of icecubes at the bottom.''
# A [[group]] or [[collection]] of things of the [[same]] kind, such as a batch of letters or the next batch of business. 
#* ''A new '''batch''' of Lords.'' --Lady M. W. Montagu.
# {{computing}} A set of [[data]] to be processed with one [[execute|execution]] of a program.
#:''The system throttled itself to '''batches''' of 50 requests at a time to keep the thread count under control.''

====Synonyms====
*(''quantity of baked goods made at one time''): [[recipe]]
*(''quantity of anything produced in one operation''): [[pressing]], [[run]], [[lot]]
*(''group or collection of things of the same kind''): [[group]], [[lot]]

====Translations====
;quantity of baked goods made at one time
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;quantity of anything produced in one operation
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;group or collection of things of the same kind
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[lot]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[lot]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[lote]] {{m}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|bat|ch|}}

# To [[aggregate]] things together into a batch.
#:''The contractor '''batched''' the purchase orders for the entire month into one statement.''
# {{computing}} To [[batch process]] a set of input data or requests.
#:''The purchase requests for the day were stored in a queue and '''batched''' for printing the next morning.''

===References===
{{R:Webster 1913}}

===Derived terms===
*[[batch mode]]
*[[batch process]]

[[ar:batch]]
[[gl:batch]]
[[pt:batch]]
[[ru:batch]]
[[vi:batch]]
[[zh:batch]]