{{rfd}}
The Battle of Britain was not a single fight  - but instead a series of air engagements fought between the British Royal Air Force (RAF) and the German Luftwaffe that started in May 1940 till the end of September 1940.  Stated simply – The Germans needed to establish air superiority over the UK in order to allow them to suppress the Royal Navy who would attempt to oppose their planned invasion – Operation Sea Lion.  The available German aircraft outnumbered the Royal Air Force aircraft 2,400 to 600.

[[There has been much revisionist history of the event but it can be fairly summarised as follows:]]

1.	Spurred on by German bombing in Spain during the Spanish Civil War - from 1935 the British develop Radio Direction Finding (later known as RADAR) and construct a chain of stations around the UK to form an early warning system against approaching air raids.

2.	The system was complemented by the civilian, land-based Observer Corp (later the Royal Observer Corp) who reported aircraft movements over the UK mainland (where the early RDF could not “look”).

3.	Signal Intelligence from the only recently declassified (1986) ULTRA signal intelligence unit contributed sporadic but accurate intelligence about German intentions and orders for the day.

4.	The above intelligence was co-ordinated by UK Fighter Command, Group Headquarters (4) and many Sector Offices around the country.  Sector Offices would then “scramble” squadrons of aircraft to intercept incoming raids.  By preserving aircraft on the ground till needed the British conserved their resources of aircraft and pilots.

This system developed by Hugh Dowding (later knighted)– Commander of Fighter Command is an early example of a Command and Control system integrating diverse elements to produce an integrated response.

The battle had three main phases – all designed by the German’s to lure the Royal Air Force into the air to destroy it:

1.	In May the Germans started bombing coastal shipping convoys to draw up protecting British aircraft to defend the vital convoys of small ships that made up much of the British bulk transport system that supported her industries.

2.	In August (generally considered to be Aug 15th – Eagle Day) the Germans switched to attacking RAF RDF stations and airfields to further disrupt the RAF’s ability to respond to their attacks.

3.	On September 7th the Germans switched to attacking London by day and by night to further draw up the RAF to destroy them.  

This switch away from airfields at the point when they Germans had nearly reduced the RAF’s southern airfields and infrastructure to ruin is considered by many to be a pivotal error.  Provoked by an errant bombing raid by the Germans on London and a British retaliatory response on Berlin the next night the Germans switched to vengeance tactics rather than continuing their systematic approach to destroying the RAF.  This respite for the airfields allowed the RAF to reorganize and attack in strength on September 15th (in the UK recognized as “Battle of Britain Day”) severely demoralised the German aircrews and breaking their command’s will to continue the attack by day.  With air superiority NOT established an invasion was considered too risky and Germany withdrew her forces to the East for a 1941 attack on Russia.


Many factors influenced the battle on a daily level and contributed to the final result but these included:

[[For the British]]

1.	A Command and Control System that successfully vectored small units of defending aircraft onto German raids on a continuous basis meaning the German’s were harried throughout the process of a raid.  Though it only worked about 50% of the time to start with (not often realised in histories of the event) this gave the British sufficient edge to not have to fly wasteful standing patrols “just in case” a raid flew by.

2.	Sufficient numbers of robust modern Hurricane (the real winner for the British) and Spitfire (only recently introduced and though famous – not the real killer is became later in the war) aircraft with which to oppose the modern German Luftwaffe.

3.	The – relative – ease with which British fighter types could be flown compared to their training intensive German counterparts allowing poorly trained pilots to have a marginal chance of successfully defending Britain..

4.	The British mode of allowing devolved responsibility to Sector Offices and fighter leaders meant that outmoded and practiced tactics were quickly recognized as outdated and fighter leaders could change tactics on their own responsibility.

5.	Recovery of shot down British pilots over their own territory – allowing them to fly again if they survived.

6.	The British habit of rotating pilots out of the combat area for a “rest” - even though desperately short of pilots in the front line – meant experience was shared among other pilots and with elementary training to new pilots.  The practice also meant there was no particular area without some experienced pilots covering the coast.  A fact that shocked the Germans on occasions when they probed from other directions – like raiding from Norway.

7.	A significant failure by the Germans to realise the importance of RDF.  Though they tried to initially knock out the stations – and had some success.  Built in redundancy in the system and poor German evaluation of the true importance of the potential of the system meant they did not pursue this target.

8.	The strength in depth offered by the civilian manned Observer Corp linked to the command system by telephone – their  network , coupled with RDF and signal intelligence is an early example of an Information Net 

9.	The switch to bombing London which allowed the British time to re-group and attack again in force. 


[[Against the British]]

1.	In-fighting within their command between Group commanders as to the best air combat tactics to use to oppose German attacks.  The southern 11 Group was severely mauled on many occasions and had infrastructure destroyed when 12 Group too long to cover their airfields for them.  Dowding’s failure to knock his commander’s heads together was a contributory factor to him being sacked after the battle.

2.	A desperate shortage of pilots that meant that new pilots were flying with only 10 hours (or less) training in how to fly their combat aircraft and with no combat training.  The losses amongst these pilots was significant.

3.	Though the RAF of the period is often portrayed as a University elite – post war analysis shows this to not be the case – all UK social classes were well represented as pilots.  But the RAF did suffer from latent racism in the command who failed to appreciate early enough the significant reinforcement offered by escaped French, Czech and Polish pilots and who side lined them far longer than they should have.  When allowed to fight after an accidental training engagement with a German raid the Poles went on to have the highest kill ratio of any pilot type during the entire battle.

4.	Failure to analyze German Spanish Civil War tactics and tactics used against the RAF in France meaning they flew outdated combat tactics in the early part of the battle.

[[For the Germans]]

1.	A well trained and combat hardened air force who had fought in Spain, Poland, France, Belgium and Holland

2.	Relatively modern aircraft that were as good as or slightly better than RAF types at the start of the battle.



[[Against the Germans]]

1.	Lost pilots were lost - and prisoners - so as the RAF’s experience increased the Germans’ experience among fighter leaders actually decreased.

2.	Overconfident evaluation of losses they were inflicting on the RAF leading to mistaken tactical decisions.

3.	Failure to appreciate RDF actually worked and that the British Command and Control system was conserving and judiciously using their limited resources.

4.	Single point, hierarchical management (the Luftwaffe leader Hermann Goering) who ordered tactical switches - pinning fighters alongside bombers and so having them fly with out the fighting advantage of height and in a fuel inefficient mode.

5.	Hitler’s order to switch bombing to London - and so away from RAF infrastructure when it was on the point of breaking.

6.	After switching on London their fighter aircraft were operating at extreme range and had little spare stores for prolonged fighting over London leaving their bombing force unprotected as it was attacked by husbanded British fighters.


The end of September - when the German’s disbanded their invasion forces - is generally considered to be the “end” of the Battle of Britain

Sustained air warfare continued over Britain through the winter of 1940 / 41 as the Germans progressively bombed British cities, sea ports and centres of industrial production by night – something that the RAF, without effective airborne RADAR or night fighters could not yet counter.

None the less the Battle of Britain is an example of how a carefully organized and well briefed inferior force can fight a superior force to a standstill.

In commenting on the battle – Winston Churchill, the UK’s wartime Prime Minister commented with reference to the pilots that:

'''''”Never in the field of human conflict has so much been owed by so many to so few”'''''

While correct and of a needed and rousing propaganda nature – there is not one of “the few” British pilots who would not also add:

'''''“and aircraft manufacturers, training squadrons, delivery pilots (often women), signal intelligence, radar, observer corps, aircraft fitters, rescue launch drivers et al”.'''''

--GJWS 16:35, 31 Dec 2004 (UTC)