{{see|bè}}
{{see|Be}}
==English==

{{rank|had|you|not|19|be|at|by|on}}

===Etymology 1===
Irregular forms inherited from the Old English compound verb ''[[beon-wesan|bēon-wesan]]''.

====Pronunciation====
*{{audio|en-us-be.ogg|Audio (US)}}

====Verb====
=====Conjugation=====
{| border=0 cellpadding=2 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=24%|
{|
Infinitive: '''to be'''
|}
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=24%|
{|
Imperative: '''be'''
|}
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=24%|
{|
Present participle: '''[[being]]'''
|}
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=24%|
{|
Past participle: '''[[been]]'''
|}
|}

{|border=0 cellpadding=2 cellspacing=2 width=100%
|- align="center" bgcolor="#fff3f3"
|
| Present indicative || Past indicative
| Present subjunctive || Past subjunctive
|- align="center" bgcolor="#fff3f3"
| First-person singular
! [[am]] !! [[was]] !! be !! [[were]]
|- align="center" bgcolor="#fff3f3"
| Second-person singular
| '''[[are]] '''or, obsolete,''' [[art]]''' || '''[[were]] '''or, obsolete,''' [[wast]]''' || '''be''' || '''[[were]] '''or, obsolete,''' [[wert]]'''
|- align="center" bgcolor="#fff3f3"
| Third-person singular
! [[is]] !! [[was]] !! be !! [[were]]
|- align="center" bgcolor="#fff3f3"
| First-person plural
! [[are]] !! [[were]] !! be !! [[were]]
|- align="center" bgcolor="#fff3f3"
| Second-person plural
! [[are]] !! [[were]] !! be !! [[were]]
|- align="center" bgcolor="#fff3f3"
| Third-person plural
! [[are]] !! [[were]] !! be !! [[were]]
|}

# {{intransitive}}: To [[occupy]] a [[place]]. <!-- cf. Spanish estar vs. ser -->
#:''The cat is in the bag, it will still '''be''' in the bag tomorrow.''
# {{intransitive}}: To [[occur]], to take place.
#: ''When and where is the test?  It will '''be''' tomorrow, in room 5.''
# {{intransitive}}: To [[exist]] 
#: ''To '''be''', or not to '''be''', that is the question.'' &mdash; Shakespeare, ''Hamlet''
# ''([[copula|copular]]):'' Indicates that the subject and object are the same.
#: ''Two plus two is four.'' or ''Two plus two are four.''
#: ''Ignorance '''is''' bliss.''
# ''([[copula|copular]]):'' Indicates that the subject plays the role of the object.
#: ''François Mitterrand '''was''' president of France from 1981 to 1995'' <!-- Won't have to change this when Chirac leaves office -->
# ''([[copula|copular]]):'' Connects a noun to an adjective describing it.
#: ''The sky '''is''' blue.''
# ''([[copula|copular]]):'' Indicates that the subject has the qualities described by a noun or noun phrase. <!-- not quite right? -->
#: ''The sky '''is''' a deep blue today.''
#: ''The street '''was''' a confusion of vendors and shoppers.''
# ''([[auxiliary verb|auxiliary]]):'' Used to form the [[passive voice]].
#:''The dog '''was''' drowned in the pond.''
#:i.e. someone killed the dog, as opposed to ''The dog drowned in the pond,'' where the dog died accidentially.
#:''The staff meeting will '''be''' held next Monday at 1:00.''
# ''([[auxiliary verb|auxiliary]]):'' Used to form the continuous forms of the several tenses.
#:''The woman '''is''' walking.''
#:''For how long had you '''been''' waiting before the bus came?''
# ''([[auxiliary verb|auxiliary]]):'' Used to form the subjunctive mood.
#:'''''Be''' she more patient.''

=====Translations=====
'''Caution!''' ''This verb is fraught with irregularities of both form and usage in many languages.  Strict literal translations should be viewed with suspicion.''

{{top}}
*Breton: [[bezañ]]
*Bulgarian: [[съм]]
*Catalan: [[ser]], [[estar]]
*Chinese: [[是]] (shì), [[有]] (yǒu), [[在]] (zài), [[係]] (hai6) ([[Cantonese]])
*Czech: [[být]]
*Danish: [[være]], [[have]]
*Dutch: [[zijn]], [[wezen]] (archaic, used in certain idioms and expressions)
*Esperanto: [[esti]], [[okazi]] (''intransitive verb'' 2), [[ekzisti]] (''intransitive verb'' 3)
*Estonian: [[olema]]
*Faroese: [[vera]]
*Finnish: [[olla]]
*French: [[être]]
*German: [[sein]]
*Greek: [[είμαι]]
*Hindi: [[होना]]
*Interlingua]]: [[esser]], [[ser]] 
*Irish: [[bí]]
*Italian: [[essere]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese:
** (''auxiliary'', ''copula'') [[だ]] (da, ''informal''), [[です]] (desu, ''formal'')
** (''existence'') [[有る]] (ある, aru, ''inanimate''); [[居る]] (いる, iru, ''animate'')
*Korean: [[있다]] (it-da)
*Latin: [[esse]] (''usu. cited by its 1st p. sng. form'' [[sum]])
*Macedonian: [[сум]]
*Manx: [[#Manx|be]]
*Norwegian: [[være]]
*Novial: [[es]]
*Old English: [[beon-wesan|bēon-wesan]]
*Polish: [[by&#263;]]
*Portuguese: ''intransitive'' '''1''' [[ser]], [[existir]], '''2''' [[estar]]; ''copular'' '''1~3''' [[ser]]; ''auxiliary'' '''1''' [[ser]] (with passive voice), '''2''' [[estar]] (with active voice)
*Romanian: [[fi]]
*Russian: [[быть]] (intransitive verb 1-2, auxilary verb 1) (usually omitted), [[являться]] (copular verb 1), [[существовать]] (intransitive verb 3)
*Spanish: [[ser]], [[estar]] (''note'' : ''ser'' and ''estar'' are not employed in the same cases)
*Swedish: [[vara]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
====Noun====
'''be'''
#''(initialism)'' [[Belgium]].


[[Category:English irregular verbs]]

==Amuzgo==
===Adjective===
'''be'''
# [[red]]

==Balinese==
'''be'''
# [[fish]]
# [[meat]], [[fish]], [[tofu]], [[egg]] (everything that is eaten with rice exept vegetables)

==German==
===Etymology===
From the same root as ''[[bei]]''.
===Prefix===
'''be-'''
====Related terms====
{{top}}
*[[besatzen]]
*[[behaupten]]
*[[beweisen]]
*[[bestellen]]
*[[betasten]]
*[[bekommen]]
*[[bekümmern]]
*[[beleibt]]
*[[begabt]]
*[[beleuchten]]
{{mid}}
*[[bekleiden]]
*[[befallen]]
*[[bedecken]]
*[[besänftigen]]
*[[betupfen]]
*[[bereichern]]
*[[begleiten]]
*[[befummeln]]
*[[bereisen]]
{{bottom}}

==Hungarian==
===[[Coverb]]===
'''be-''', '''be'''
# [[in]], [[into]]
#:'''''Be'''sz&aacute;lltam a kocsiba.''

==Latin==
===Alternative spellings===
* [[bee]]
===interjection===
'''be'''
# "baa", sound made by sheep

==Lithuanian==
===Particle===
'''be'''
# (shows absence of smth) [[without]]
# [[besides]]; [[but]], [[except]]

==Manx==
===Verb===
'''be'''
# to '''be'''

==Norwegian==
===Verb===
{{no-verb|'''be'''|'''[[ber]]'''|'''[[ba]]'''|'''[[bedt]]'''}}
# to [[pray]]
# to [[ask]] something of someone

==Swedish==
===Verb===
'''be''' ('''[[bedja]]''', ''present tense'' '''[[ber]]''', ''past tense'' '''[[bad]]''', ''supine'' '''[[bett]]''', ''imperative'' '''[[be]]''', ''present participle'' '''[[bedjande]]''', ''past participle'' '''[[bedd]]''')

# [[ask]] for, request someone else to do something
# to [[pray]]
# to [[beg]], to plead with someone for help or for a favor.

[[Category:Behaviour]]
[[Category:English auxiliary verbs]]
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:Swedish verbs]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:Balinese language]]
[[Category:Hungarian language]]
[[Category:Latin language]]
[[Category:Lithuanian language]]
[[Category:Manx language]]

[[de:be]]
[[es:be]]
[[fr:be]]
[[gl:Be]]
[[ko:Be]]
[[it:be]]
[[la:Be]]
[[ja:be]]
[[no:Be]]
[[pl:be]]
[[pt:Be]]
[[fi:be]]
[[sv:be]]
[[zh:Be]]