==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''bēam''.

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /bi:m/

===Noun===
'''beam'''
#Any large [[piece]] of [[timber]] or [[iron]] long in proportion to its thickness, and prepared for use.
#One of the principal [[horizontal]] timbers of a building; one of the [[transverse]] members of a [[ship]]'s frame on which the [[deck]]s are laid - [[supported]] at the sides by [[knee]]s in [[wooden]] ships and by [[stringer]]s in [[steel]] ones.
#The width of a [[vessel]]; as, one vessel is said to have more beam than another.
#The bar of a [[balance]], from the ends of which the scales are suspended.
#The principal stem or [[horn]] of a [[stag]] or other deer, which bears the antlers, or branches.
#The [[pole]] of a [[carriage]].
#A [[cylinder]] of [[wood]], making part of a loom, on which weavers wind the warp before weaving; also, the cylinder on which the cloth is rolled, as it is woven; one being called the fore beam, the other the back beam.
#The straight part or [[shank]] of an [[anchor]].
#The main part of a [[plow]], to which the [[handle]]s and colter are secured, and to the end of which are attached the oxen or horses that draw it.
#A heavy iron [[lever]] having an oscillating motion on a central axis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which it receives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; -- called also working beam or walking beam.
#A [[ray]] or [[collection]] of parallel [[ray]]s emitted from the sun or other luminous body; as, a beam of [[light]], or of heat.
#Fig.: A ray; a [[gleam]]; as, a beam of comfort.
#One of the long [[feather]]s in the wing of a [[hawk]]; -- called also beam feather.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[tra]] ''m''
*Arabic: [[شعاع]] , [[كمرة]]
*Croatian: [[greda]] ''f'', [[brvno]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[palkki]] (1), [[poikkipuu]] (2), [[vaaka|vaa'an]] [[selkä]] (4), [[säde]] (11)
*French: poutre (1, 2)
*German: [[Balken]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[gerenda]]
*[[Ido]]: [[trabo]]
*Italian: [[raggio]] ''m'', [[trave]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[梁]] ([[はり]], hari, りょう, ryou) (1), [[光線]] (こうせん, kousen) (11)
*Polish: [[belka]] ''f'', [[promień]] ''m'' (11)
*Romanian: [[grindă]] ''f'', [[bârnă]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[viga]] {{f}}, [[travesaño]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

----

==Frisian==
===Noun===
'''beam'''

# [[tree]]

[[Category:Frisian language]]

----

==Old English==
===Etymology===
From West Germanic ''*bauma-''.  Cognate with Old Frisian [[bam|bām]], Old Saxon [[bam|bām]] (Dutch [[boom]]), Old High German [[boum]] (German [[Baum]]).  The word is related in some way to Gothic [[𐌱𐌰𐌲𐌼𐍃]], Old Norse [[baðmr]], suggesting a possible ultimate Germanic source ''*baugmaz''.

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /bæ:am/

===Noun===
'''bēam''' ''m'' (''pl'' '''bēamas''')
# a [[tree]]
#:''on ðæs beames bledum'': on the branches of the tree
# the [[Cross]]
#:''Wæs se beam bocstafum awriten'': the Cross was inscribed with letters  (''Codex Vercillensis'')
# a beam of wood

[[Category:Old English nouns]]

[[fr:beam]]
[[io:beam]]
[[it:beam]]
[[hu:beam]]
[[fi:beam]]
[[zh:beam]]