==English==

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[beatan]]''. Confer Old High German ''[[bozan]]'', Old Norse ''[[bauta]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|bēt}}
*{{IPA|/biːt/}}
*{{SAMPA|/bi:t/}}
*{{audio|en-us-beat.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Homophones: [[beet]]
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːt|-iːt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A [[pulsation]] or [[throb]].
# A [[pulse]] on the [[beat level]], the [[metric]] level at which pulses are heard as the basic unit.  Thus a beat is the basic [[time]] unit of a piece.
# A [[rhythm]].
# A pause with the camera focused on one shot, often a characters face (often used in screenplays/teleplays).
# The route of a patrol by a guard or officer as in ''[[walk the beat]]''.

===Verb===
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
{{en-verb|beats|beating|beat|beaten}}

# To [[hit]]; to [[knock]]; to [[pound]]; to [[strike]].
#:''As soon as she heard the news, she went into a rage and '''beat''' the wall with her fists until her knuckles bled.''
# To [[strike]] or [[pound]] [[repeatedly]], usually in some sort of [[rhythm]].
#:''He danced hypnotically while she '''beat''' the atabaque.''
# To [[win]] against; to [[defeat]]; to do [[better]] than, [[outdo]], or [[excel]] someone in a particular, [[competitive]] [[event]].
#:''Jessica had little trouble '''beating''' John in tennis.  He lost five games in a row.''
#:''No matter how quickly Joe finished his test, Roger always '''beat''' him.''
# ''([[Intransitive]], nautical):'' To [[sail]] to [[windward]] using a [[series]] of [[alternate]] [[tack]]s across the [[wind]].
# To [[mix]] [[food]] in a rapid fashion. ''cf. [[whip]].''
#:'''''Beat''' the eggs and whip the cream.''

====Translations====
:;To hit, to knock, to pound, to strike
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|يضرب}}
*French: [[battre]]
*German: [[schlagen]], [[hauen]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[tolči]], [[tepsti]]
*Swedish: [[slå]]
{{bottom}}

:;To strike or pound repeatedly
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|يضرب}}
*German: [[schlagen]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[tolči]], [[tepsti]]
*Swedish: [[slå]]
{{bottom}}

:;To win against
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|يفوز}}
*German: [[schlagen]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[premagati]]
*Swedish: [[slå]], [[besegra]]
{{bottom}}

:;Nautical
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[slå]]
{{bottom}}

:;To whip
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|يجلد}}
*German: [[schlagen]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[vispa]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-more}}

# ''([[gay]] [[slang]])'' [[fabulous]]
#:Her makeup was beat!
# [[exhausted]]
#:''After the long day, she was feeling completely '''beat'''.''

====Translations====
;fabulous
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;exhausted
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[slutkörd]]
{{bottom}}

===Translations to be verified===
<!--most likely belonging to verb-->
{{rfc-trans}}
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: [[ضرب]] (daraba)
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[slaan]], [[kloppen]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[bato]] {{n}}, [[bati]] ''v''
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[battre]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[pukul]], [[hantam]], [[hajar]], [[ketuk]], [[ketok]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[colpire]], [[battere]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[殴る]] ([[なぐる]], naguru), [[叩く]] ([[たたく]], tataku)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[pello]] (1,2)
*{{ttbc|Novial}}: [[frapa]] (1), [[frapada]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Old English}}: [[hnossian]] (1,2)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: (heart) [[latir]]
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[bít]], [[tlouct]], [[mlátit]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top}}
*[[backbeat]], [[back beat]]
*[[beat down]]
*[[beater]]
*[[beat generation]]
*[[beat senseless]]
*[[beat some sense into]]
*[[beat to the punch]]
{{mid}}
*[[beat to quarters]]
*[[beat up]]
*[[deadbeat]]
*[[drumbeat]]
*[[heartbeat]]
*[[walk the beat]]
*[[wife-beater]]
{{bottom}}

===References===
*DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465.

----

==[[Volapük]]==

===Noun===
'''beat'''

# [[happiness]]

[[ar:beat]]
[[fr:beat]]
[[gl:beat]]
[[ko:beat]]
[[io:beat]]
[[it:beat]]
[[hu:beat]]
[[pt:beat]]
[[ru:beat]]
[[fi:beat]]
[[ta:beat]]
[[vi:beat]]
[[uk:beat]]
[[zh:beat]]