<!-- Please do not remove nor change this VfD message until the issue is settled -->
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="vfd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]][[Template:Vfd|.]]'''<br>
Please vote on and discuss the matter. See '''[[Wikipedia:Votes for deletion/{{PAGENAME}}|this article's entry]]''' on the Votes for Deletion page.<BR>
You are welcome to edit this article, but please do not blank, merge, or move this article, nor remove this notice, while the discussion is in progress. For more information, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to Votes for deletion|Guide to ''Votes for Deletion'']].</div>[[Category:Pages on votes for deletion]]
<!-- End of VfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->

A '''Beeramid''' is a [[pyramid]] made from discarded [[beer]] cans. 

Often found in places frequented by [[drinking|drinkers]], a large beeramid was often a monument to the local party [[scene]]. Inspired by films such as [[National Lampoon's Animal House]] during the heyday of [[party|party culture]], beeramids were most frequently seen during the late [[1970s]], the [[1980s]], and the early [[1990s|'90s]], and could often be found in [[frat]] houses, [[dorm]]s, and other collegiate locations throughout the US, as well as at so-called [[white trash]] dwellings and other places where canned beer was consumed in volume. Beeramids were rarely erected in commercial establishments, however, due to the potential impedance to service and possible liability of the owners. 

Beeramids were often built as empty beer cans became available, slowly growing as the night (or week or month) wore on. In most cases, though, a beeramid was a [[impermanence|temporary]] structure, eventually giving way to the inevitable clean-up or accidental distruction. The impermanence of the beeramid structure lends itself to easily removing the structure from wherever it has grown; combined with the great ease of creating a [[structure]] of relatively impressive size, beeramids remain popular today, especially when one considers it is often easier to contribute an empty beer [[can]] to the beeramid, than it is to deposit the can in the appropriate [[recycling|recycling receptacle]]. 

''''Beeramid'''' is also the name of a [[drinking game]], which involves laying 15 cards out in a pyramid, and drinking based on the cards laid out.

==External links==
*[http://www.firstandthird.org/tables/information/beeramid.shtml The First & Third Trinity Boat Club Beeramid]
*[http://www.drinksmixer.com/games/5/ Instructions for the Beeramid drinking game]
*[http://community.webshots.com/photo/125367963/125373589uCgnkB A small but classic Beeramid]

[[Category:Beer]]