==English==
{{wikipedia}}
=== Etymology === 
From {{Hebr.}} [[בהמות]] (Bəhēmôth), the name of a creature mentioned in the Book of Job. It is most likely a plural form of [[בהמה]] (bəhēmāh "animal"). It may be an example of pluralis excellentiae, a Hebrew method of expressing greatness by pluralizing a noun; it thus indicates that Behemoth is the largest and most powerful animal. The word entered into Middle English at around the 14th century from late Latin.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/bəˈhiːməθ/}}

=== Noun ===
{{en-noun|behemoth|behemoths}}

# A great and mighty [[beast]] described in [[Job]] 40:15-24 used to illustrate God's mightiness.
# A great and mighty monster, (the [[hippopotamus]] is said by some scholars to be the animal described in Job's illustration).
# Something which has the qualities of great power and might, and monstrous proportions.

====Synonyms====
*(''something of great size and power''): [[colossus]], [[leviathan]], [[mammoth]], [[titan]]

====Quotations====
*'''1611''' — [[w:King James Version of the Bible|King James Version of the Bible]], ''[[s:Bible, King James, Job|Job]] 40:15-18''
*:Behold now '''behemoth''', which I made with thee; he eateth grass as an ox.<br/>Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the navel of his belly.<br/>He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are wrapped together.<br/>His bones are as strong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars of iron.

====Translations====
;mighty beast in the Book of Job
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[بهيموث]] (Bahīmūth) or [[بهموت]] (Bahamūt)
*German: [[Behemot]], [[Moloch]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[Бегемот]]
{{bottom}}

;mighty monster
{{top}}
*German: [[Riesentier]] ''n''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;something of great size and power
{{top}}
*German: [[Gigant]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms====
*[[behemothic]]

===See also===
*[[leviathan]]