==English==


===Noun===
'''Beigeist'''

# Sell out; conformist (with a heavy connotation of careerism), as in the color beige, as in ‘beigeocracy’, that being the color of Starbucks lattes and corporate conformity. 
#:''Colorful nonconformists frighten Beigeists.'' - [http://www.jewishworldreview.com/0505/jennings052605.php3 Marianne M. Jennings], Jewish World Review, May 26, 2005

It is a term coined by writer [http://en.wikipedia.com/wiki/Mark_Ames Mark Ames] and popularized in Ames' [http://www.nypress.com/16/35/news&columns/feature.cfm notorious attack on author Chuck Klosterman], to describe anyone of Manhattan LA media ilk or other forces of bourgeois/corporate mediocracy or conformity.

[http://www.gawker.com/news/diary/beigeism-013153.php According to Gawker], Beigeist is "hipster slang used to slap those who march in lockstep with 'beige' corporate America. Starbucks is mentioned often, perhaps because lattes are beige, as are Gap Chinos."

Re: the request for verification, 1) [http://www.nypress.com/16/35/news&columns/feature.cfm here] is the word as used in the [http://nypress.com New York Press], a national alternative weekly, 2) [http://exile.ru/ames/ames66.html here] is the word as used in [http://exile.ru the eXile], a Moscow based English language alternative weekly ("Somewhere in the cruise-control synapses of McFaul's ''beigeist'' brain, he senses that his arrest and trial is a real possibility"), and 3) [http://www.gawker.com/news/diary/beigeism-013153.php here] is the word as defined by [http://gawker.com Gawker], a top media blog/gossip column.

====Quotations====
*'''1999''' June, Mark Ames, “Arrest Michael McFaul”, ''the eXile'', issue 11
*:Somewhere in the cruise-control synapses of McFaul's '''beigeist''' brain, he senses that his arrest and trial is a real possibility.
*'''2001''' November, Kevin McElwee, “To Wince, Perchance to Cringe”, ''the eXile'', issue 129
*:The disgust of the '''beigeist''' who simply dismisses the film outright and then returns happily to his mundane little existence is of limited appeal of course.
*'''2000''' April, Mark Ames and Matt Taibbi, ''The Exile'', Grove Press
*:Those Berkeley dreams I once had of shaking up the '''Beigeist''' world were long gone.
*'''2003''' August, Mark Ames, “The All-Annoying eye of Chuck Klosterman”, ''New York Press'', volume 16, issue 35
*:I didn’t know intellectuals, even '''Beigeist''' morons like Klosterman, could get away with using phrases like "high" and "low" culture anymore. Even ironically.
*'''2003''' September, John Dolan, “Smut for the Pious”, ''the eXile'', issue 173
*:this dreary hypocrisy brought home to me how very great Hunter Thompson''...''still is, reports of his speed-senility always proving to be wishful thinking by vindictive '''Beigeists'''.
*'''2003''' September, Jake Rudnitsky, “Serfin' USA: Duped Russkies”, ''the eXile'', issue 173
*:Russians here''...''tend to be drawn to blacks as a kind of antidote to white America's '''beigeist''' culture.