==English 1==

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To have its proper place.
#:''Where does this document '''belong'''?''
#(''of a person'') To be accepted in a group.
#:''You don't '''belong''' here &mdash; get out.''
#(''followed by'' '''to''') To be the property of.
#:''That house '''belongs''' to me.''
#(''followed by'' '''to''') To be the guardian, spouse or partner of.
#{{settheory}} (''followed by'' '''to''') To be an [[element]] of (a set).

====Derived terms====
*[[belonging]]

====Translations====

'''have its proper place'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[thuishoren]]
*Finnish: [[kuulua]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[höra]]
*Tatar: [[belän]]
{{bottom}}

'''of a person, be accepted in a group'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: zich [[aanvaard voelen]], zich [[thuisvoelen]], [[horen]] bij, [[thuishoren]] (bij)
*Finnish: [[kuulua]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[höra hit]] (''belong here''), [[tillhöra]] (''belong to'')
*Tatar: [[belän]]
{{bottom}}

'''be the property of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[toebehoren]] aan, van iemand [[zijn]]
*Finnish: [[kuulua]]
*French: [[appartenir]] [[à]]
*German: [[gehören]] [[zu]]
*Italian: [[appartenere]] [[a#Italian|a]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[pertencer]]
*Spanish: [[pertenecer]] [[a#Spanish|a]]
*Swedish: [[tillhöra]]
*Tatar: [[belän]]
{{bottom}}

'''be the guardian, spouse or partner of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[horen]] bij, bij iemand [[zijn]]
*Finnish: [[kuulua]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in set theory'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[behoren]] tot
*Finnish: [[kuulua]]
*French: [[appartenir]] [[à]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tillhöra]], [[höra till]]
*Tatar: [[belän]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: (2): [[pertencer]] a
*{{ttbc|Danish}}: [[tilhøre]]

==English 2==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[blung]]
*[[b’longta]], [[b’longa]], [[belonga]], [[blonga]]
===Etymology===
Compare Kriol ''[[blanga]]'', Bislama ''[[blong]]'', Tok Pisin ''[[bilong]]'', and Torres Strait Creole ''[[blong]]''.
===Preposition===
'''belong''' ('''to''')

# ''(northern Australian Aboriginal)'' [[of]], belonging to
===Quotations===
*'''1915,''' E. R. Masson, ''Untamed Territory''
*:Jim Campbell, Charlie, Dick, ... Fred, lubra '''b’longa''' him, me, thass all.
*'''1936,''' M. & E. Durack, ''Chunuma''
*:By an’ bye ’im grow ’m up make ’m good fella stockman '''b’longta''' you.
*'''1977,''' N. Kolig, ''Playing Alonga Mud''
*:Those who had persevered with the course and had acquired some skill were now almost deferentially called ‘Maban (expert) '''belonga''' clay’.
*'''1986,''' ''Kowanyama News,'' Dec.
*:Them two bin help’m too, and that father '''blung''' to this one old Frank.
*'''1986,''' B. Shaw, ''Countrymen''
*:There’s the bloke that’s kill that feller, uncle '''belong''' you an me.
*'''1991,''' D. B. Rose, ''Hidden Histories''
*:Get that fire [wood] stacked up like that tree there, that high ... It wasn’t wood '''belong''' to that fire pile. Might be for station, or somebody else, you know.

[[Category:English verbs that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:English prepositions]]

[[ar:belong]]
[[fr:belong]]
[[gl:belong]]
[[io:belong]]
[[hu:belong]]
[[ja:belong]]
[[simple:belong]]
[[fi:belong]]
[[vi:belong]]
[[zh:belong]]