==English==

===Noun===
'''Bible-basher''' (''plural'' '''Bible-bashers''')
# {{UK}} (''perjorative'') A [[fundamentalist]] [[Christian]] [[preacher]], who is seen to take every opportunity to talk about Christianity and convert those around them, especially against the other peoples' wills.
#: ''I don't ever go to my local church any more, it's become filled with stupid, [[fuddy-duddy]] '''bible bashers'''...''
# {{US}} A person who tries to find fault with the [[Bible]], [[Christianity]] or Christian teaching.
#*'''2002:''' Everett Hickey, ''Biblical'' in alt.astronomy [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.astronomy/browse_thread/thread/9838c6a70e6a0312/8cfc3675a3e82013?lnk=st&q=against+%22bible+basher%22+-deicide&rnum=15&hl=en#8cfc3675a3e82013]
#*:I'm no '''bible-basher''' looking to discredit everything I hear, but there is one point that might be interesting to argue...If the bible is the Word of God, which version or language is the official Word, as the meanings change subtley from one to another? 
#*'''2003:''' Jeff Shirton, ''Conference...'' in alt.religion.mormon [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.religion.mormon/browse_thread/thread/a535dc7102b6ec55/022eac6d6991987d?lnk=st&q=against+%22bible+basher%22+-deicide&rnum=77&hl=en#022eac6d6991987d]
#*:There *are* no "Biblical contradictions".  Years ago, I...addressed many, many, many alleged "contradictions". It's a very sad state of affairs, most '''Bible bashers''' who claim "contradictions" prefer quantity over quality, and no matter how many *ridiculous* claims they came up with and I demolished, they would continue with others...
#*'''2006:''' veralein, ''How to protect yourself against false Christian teachers'' in alt.christnet.christianlife [http://groups.google.com/group/alt.christnet.christianlife/browse_thread/thread/80f36af2e40d135a/15e69f2a5f0959de?lnk=st&q=%22bible+basher%22+against+-deicide&rnum=6&hl=en#15e69f2a5f0959de]
#*:I think you are just a '''Bible basher''' for what reasons ever. Maybe you are just an atheist who has pleasure in trolling Christians and recruiting them.

====Usage note====

While the second sense is chiefly US, the first meaning in the US is also current and is more common in the US than the second meaning. See talk page.

====Synonyms====
*[[Bible thumper]] (''US'')
*[[God botherer]] (''UK'')

====Antonyms====
*'''Bible basher''' (''US'')