{{see|Bill}}

==English==

===Etymology===
#Middle English ''[[bille]]'' < Norman French < Medieval Latin ''[[billa]]'' "[[seal]]" < Latin ''[[bulla]]'' "[[bubble]]"
#Middle English ''[[bil]]'' < Old English ''[[bill#Old English|bill]]'' "[[sword]]"
#Middle English ''[[bile]]'' < Old English ''[[bile]]''

===Noun===
'''bill''' (''plural'' '''[[bills]]''')

# An [[invoice]]; an [[account]] of goods [[sold]], [[service]]s [[render]]ed, or [[work]] done, with the [[price]] or [[charge]]; a [[statement]] of a [[creditor]]'s [[claim]], in [[gross]] or by [[item]]s; as, a [[grocer]]'s bill.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1607''':  My [[lord]], here is my bill. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Timon of Athens'', Act III, Scene IV, line 85.
# A [[paper]], [[written]] or [[print]]ed, and [[post]]ed up or [[given]] away, to [[advertise]] something, as a [[lecture]], a [[play]], or the [[sale]] of goods; a [[placard]]; a [[poster]]; a [[handbill]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1595''': In the [[meantime]] I will [[draw]] a [[bill]] of properties, such as our [[play]] [[want]]s. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'', Act I, Scene II, line 104.
#:*She put up the [[bill]] in her parlor window. &mdash; Dickens.
# A [[draft]] of a [[law]], [[present]]ed to a [[legislature]] for [[enactment]]; a [[propose]]d or [[project]]ed law.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1600''': Why, I'll [[exhibit]] a [[bill]] in the [[parliament]] for the putting down of men. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'', Act II, Scene I, line 28.
# A [[writing]] [[bind]]ing the [[signer]] or signers to pay a [[certain]] [[sum]] at a [[future]] day or on [[demand]], with or without [[interest]], as may be [[state]]d in the [[document]]. A bill of exchange. In the United States, it is usually called a [[note]], a note of hand, or a [[promissory]] note.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1600''': 	Ay, and [[Rato-lorum]] too; and a [[gentleman]] born, Master Parson; who writes himself [[Armigero]], in any [[bill]], [[warrant]], [[quittance]], or [[obligation]], [[Armigero]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'', Act I, Scene I, line 8.
# Any paper, containing a statement of [[particular]]s; as, a bill of charges or [[expenditure]]s; a weekly bill of [[mortality]]; a bill of [[fare]], etc.
# {{law}} A [[declaration]] made in writing, stating some [[wrong]] the [[complainant]] has [[suffer]]ed from the [[defendant]], or a [[fault]] [[commit]]ted by some person against a law.

====Synonyms====
*(''account of goods''): [[account]], [[invoice]]
*(''written or printed advertisement posted or otherwise distributed''): [[broadsheet]], [[broadside]], [[card]],[[circular]], [[flier]], [[flyer]], [[handbill]], [[poster]], [[posting]], [[placard]], [[notice]], [[throwaway]]
*(''draft of a law''): [[measure]]
*(''writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day''): [[bank bill]], [[banker's bill]], [[bank note]], [[banknote]], [[Federal Reserve note]], [[government note]], [[greenback]], [[note]]

====Translations====
'''account of goods'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[lasku]]
*German: [[Rechnung]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[conto]] ''m'', [[fattura]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[счёт]] /sčot/ {{m}}
*Swedish: [[faktura]] {{c}}, [[kvitto]] {{n}}, [[nota]] {{c}}, [[räkning]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''written or printed advertisement posted or otherwise distributed'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[poster]] ''m'', [[cartello]] [[pubblicitario]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[affisch]] {{c}}, [[anslag]] {{n}}, [[program]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''draft of a law'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Gesetzesentwurf]] {{m}} 
*Italian: [[disegno]] di [[legge]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[законопроект]] /zakonoprojékt/ {{m}}, [[билль]] /bill'/ ''in Britain'' {{m}}
*Swedish: [[lagförslag]] {{c}}, [[motion]] {{c}}, [[proposition]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[cambiale]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[вексель]] /v'éks'el'/ {{m}}, [[расписка]] /raspíska/ {{f}}
*Swedish: [[sedel]] {{c}}, [[växel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''paper containing a statement of particulars'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[nota]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[förteckning]] {{c}}, [[lista]] {{c}}, [[intyg]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''law: declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[заявление]] /zajavl'énije/ {{n}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[addition]] {{f}} (1), [[déclaration]] {{f}} (2), [[facture]] (1, 2?)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[factura]] (1); [[nota]], [[declaration]] (2); [[projecto de lege]], bill (3)
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[gob]] {{m}} (6)
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[fatura]] {{f}}, [[conta]] {{f}}; [[nota]] {{f}}, [[declaração]] {{f}} (2); [[projeto de lei]] {{m}} (3)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[nota]], [[cuenta]] {{f}} (1), [[declaración]] {{f}} (2), [[w:es:proposición de ley|proposición]] o [[w:es:proyecto de ley|proyecto de ley]] (3)

====Derived terms====
*[[bill of adventure]]
*[[bill of costs]]
*[[bill of credit]]
*[[bill of divorce]]
*[[bill of entry]]
*[[bill of exceptions]]
*[[bill of exchange]]
*[[bill of fare]]
*[[bill of health]]
*[[bill of indictment]]
*[[bill of lading]]
*[[bill of mortality]]
*[[bill of pains and penalties]]
*[[bill of parcels]]
* {{law}} [[bill of particulars]]
*[[bill of rights]]
*[[bill of sale]]
*[[bill of sight]]
*[[bill of store]]
*[[bills payable]]
*[[bills receivable]]
*[[true bill]]

===Noun===
'''bill''' (''plural'' '''[[bills]]''')
# A [[cut]]ting [[instrument]], with [[hook]]-[[shape]]d [[point]], and [[fit]]ted with a [[handle]]; -- used in [[pruning]], etc.; a [[billhook]]. When short, called a [[hand bill]], when long, a [[hedge bill]].
# (''Weapon'') [[Category:Weapon]] A [[weapon]] of [[infantry]], in the 14th and 15th centuries. A common form of bill consisted of a [[broad]], [[heavy]], [[double]]-[[edge]]d, hook-shaped [[blade]], having a short [[pike]] at the back and another at the top, and attached to the end of a long [[staff]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''': In the British Museum there is an [[entry]] of a [[warrant]], [[grant]]ed to Nicholas Spicer, [[authorising]] him to [[impress]] [[smith]]s for making two [[thousand]] [[Welch]] [[bill]]s or [[glaive]]s. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons''
#:''France had no infantry that dared to face the English bows end [[bill]]s.'' Macaulay.
# Somebody who [[wield]]s a bill
# {{obsolete}} A [[pickax]], or [[mattock]].

====Synonyms====
*(''cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a handle''): [[billhook]], [[hand bill]], [[hedge bill]]
*(''somebody who wields a bill''): [[billman]]

====Translations====

'''cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a handle'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[faskinkniv]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''weapon of infantry in the 14th and 15th centuries'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hillebard]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''somebody who wields a bill'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hillebardiär]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''''obsolete'': pickax, or mattock'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hacka]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''bill''' (''plural'' '''[[bills]]''')

# The jaws of a bird together with their horny covering and sometimes of a [[turtle]] or other [[animal]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1595''': The woosel cock so black of hue, With orange-tawny bill, The throstle with his note so true, The wren with little quill... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'', Act III, Scene I, line 125.
# The [[bell]], or [[boom]], of the [[bittern]].
#:''The bittern's hollow [[bill]] was heard.'' Wordsworth.
# A brim that projects to the front to shade the eyes.
# {{nautical}} The [[extremity]] of the [[arm]] of an [[anchor]]; the point of or beyond the [[fluke]].

====Synonyms====
*(''jaws of a bird together with their horny covering'') [[beak]], [[neb]], [[nib]], [[pecker]]
*(''brim that projects to the front to shade the eyes''): [[eyeshade]], [[peak]], [[visor]], [[vizor]]

====Translations====
'''jaws of a bird together with their horny covering'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Schnabel]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[клюв]] /kl'uv/ {{m}}
*Swedish: [[näbb]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''bell, or boom, of the bittern'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''brim that projects to the front to shade the eyes'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[skärm]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''nautical: extremity of the arm of an anchor'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{obsolete}} To strike; to peck.
# To [[join]] bills, as [[dove]]s; to [[caress]] in [[fondness]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1599''': As the [[ox]] [[hath]] his [[bow]], sir, the [[horse]] his [[curb]] and the [[falcon]] her [[bell]]s, so man hath his [[desire]]s; and as [[pigeon]]s [[bill]], so [[wedlock]] would be [[nibbling]].
#:*To bill and coo, to interchange caresses; -- said of doves; also of demonstrative lovers. &mdash; Thackeray.

====Translations====
'''to join bills'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[kyssas]], [[näbbas]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[advertise]] by a bill or [[public]] [[notice]].
# To [[charge]] or [[enter]] in a bill; as, to bill [[good]]s.

====Synonyms====
*(''to advertise by a bill''): [[placard]]
*(''to charge or enter in a bill''): [[charge]]

====Translations====
'''to advertise by a bill'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[affischera]]
{{bottom}}

'''to charge or enter in a bill'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[debitera]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[work]] [[upon]], (as to [[dig]], [[hoe]], [[hack]], or [[chop]] anything) with a bill.

====Translations====
'''to work upon with a bill'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hacka]]
{{bottom}}

[[et:bill]]
[[el:bill]]
[[fr:bill]]
[[gl:bill]]
[[io:bill]]
[[it:bill]]
[[hu:bill]]
[[ja:bill]]
[[pl:bill]]
[[fi:bill]]
[[zh:bill]]