==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''biche, bicche'', {{AS.}} ''bicce''

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-bitch.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪtʃ|-ɪtʃ]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

# A [[female]] [[dog]] or other [[canine]].
#: ''My '''bitch''' just had puppies: they're so sweet!''
# {{slang}} A [[complaint]]
# {{slang}} A difficult or confounding problem.
#: '''Usage note:''' Usually only used in singular.
#: ''Question 5 was a real '''bitch''', don't you think?''
# {{vulgar}} {{derogatory}} A [[malicious]], [[spiteful]], [[domineering]], [[intrusive]], and/or [[mean]] [[woman]].
#: ''You know what she just said! She said that I'm a [[moron]]! She's such a [[fucking]] '''bitch'''!''
# {{vulgar}} {{derogatory}} A spiteful gay man, or a spiteful man (implying womanly behavior.)
#:''You called me a '''bitch''', didn't you?'' &mdash; [[w:Glenn Close|Glenn Close]] in the [[movie]] ''[[w:The Jagged Edge|The Jagged Edge]]''.
# {{cattag|jocular}} A friend. (Especially between women, between gay men, and also between woman and gay men)
#: ''Whatsup my bitch?''
#: ''How my bitches been doin'?''
# A person who makes [[derogatory]] comments about people without their knowledge.
#: ''I'm such a '''bitch''': I can't keep comments to myself - I have to say them out loud.''
# A person in an unfavorable, undesirable position.
#: ''When we pile into the car, I tend to be '''bitch''', stuck in the middlemost of the back seats.''
# One of the two people in any given relationship with the least power or "say-so".
#: ''DAMN! Do you have to ask your girl before you do EVERYTHING? You must be the '''bitch''' in the relationship.''

====Usage notes====
In predominently gay communities, the noun '''bitch''' is sometimes diffused by intentional overuse/misuse. In print, and outside those circles, the noun (referring to a person) is always demeaning, with the added implication that the person being insulted is subservient.

In professional circles, the noun '''bitch''' sometimes refers to intelligent and ambitious women with high level of sex-appeal, who use those assets to achieve their goals.

====Translations====
'''canine'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[kuja]] ''f''
*Breton: [[kiez]] ''f''
*Bulgarian: [[кучка]] (kučka) ''f''
*Chinese: [[狗]]
*Danish: [[Kælling]](slang) [[Tæve]](female dog)
*Dutch: [[teef]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[narttu]]
*French: [[chienne]] (dog), [[louve]] (wolf), [[renarde]] (fox) ''f''
*German: [[Hündin]] ''f''
*Greek: [[σκύλα]] ''f''
*Hebrew: [[כלבה]] ''f''
*Hindi: [[कुत्तियाँ]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[szuka]], [[nőstény]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[can#Interlingua|can]] ([[feminin]])
*Italian: [[cagna]] ''f''
*Korean: [[암캐]] amkae
{{mid}}
*Latvian: [[kuce]] {{f}}
*Lithuanian: [[kalė]] ''f''
*Malayalam: [[കൂത്തിപ്പട്ടി]] (kuːθːpːaʈːi)
*Norwegian: [[tispe]] ''f''
*[[Novial]]: [[hunda]]
*Polish: [[suka]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[cadela]] ''f'', [[cachorra]] ''f''
*Russian: [[сука]] ''f''
*Scottish Gaelic: [[cù boireann]] ''m''
*Slovak: [[suka]] ''f''
*Slovene: [[psica]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[perra]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[tik]] ''c''
*Tamazight: [[ⵜⴰⵢⴷⵉⵜ]] (taydit) {{f}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఆడకుక్క]] (aaDakukka)
*[[Ugaritic]]: [[klbt]] ''f''
*Welsh: [[bitsh]]
{{bottom}}

'''spiteful woman'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[kučka]] ''f''
*Breton: [[louskenn]] ''f'', [[liboudenn]] ''f''
*Bulgarian: [[кучка]] (kučka) ''f'', [[курва]] (kurva) ''f'', развратница (razvratnica) ''f''
*Chinese: [[賤人]]；[[婊]][[子]]
*Finnish: [[narttu]]
*French: [[chienne]] ''f'', [[salope]] ''f'', [[garce]] ''f'', [[chipie]] ''f'', [[rosse]] ''f''
*German: [[Schlampe]] ''f''
*Greek: [[σκύλα]] ''f''
*Hebrew: [[כלבה]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[kurva]], [[luvnya]], [[lotyó]], [[ribanc]], [[ribi]], [[ringyó]], [[szajha]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[puta]], [[putana]] ''f''
*Italian: [[stronza]] ''f'', [[troia]] ''f''
*Latvian: [[kuce]] {{f}}
*Lithuanian: [[kalė]] ''f''
*Norwegian: [[tispe]] ''f''
*Polish: [[suka]] ''f'', [[dziwka]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[puta]] ''f'', [[vagabunda]] ''f''
*Russian: [[сука]] ''f''
*Scottish Gaelic: [[galla]] ''f'', [[siùrsach]] ''f''
*Slovak: [[kurva]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[puta]] ''f'', [[culeda]] ''f'', [[ramera]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[slyna]] ''c'', [[subba]] ''c''
{{bottom}}
<!--
'''spiteful man'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}
-->

===Verb===
{{en-verb|bitch|es}}

#To complain spitefully (about something), usually for the sake of complaining rather than in order to have the problem corrected.
#:''All you ever do is bitch about the food I cook for you!''
#To grumble.
#To botch or bungle.
#:''You really bitched up this time!''
# To make [[derogatory]] comments about people [[behind one's back|behind their backs]]
#: ''Look, I saw you '''bitching''' about me yesterday, I know how you feel: why can't you say it to my face?''

====Synonyms====
*[[gripe]]
*[[kvetch]]
*[[moan]]
*[[piss and moan]]
*[[whine]]
*[[whinge]]

====Translations====
'''complain'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[klemm]], [[soroc'hal]], [[grozmolat]]
*Finnish: [[purnata]], [[vittuilla]] (''vulgar'')
*French: se [[plaindre]], [[râler]], [[chialer]], [[pester]], [[rouspéter]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[querelar]], [[lamentar]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[psioczyć]]
*Portuguese: [[queixar]]-[[se]], [[reclamar]], [[lamentar]](-[[se]]), [[lamuriar]](-[[se]]), [[choramingar]]
*Slovak: [[frfľať]], [[sťažovať sa]]
*Spanish: quejar(se), requejar(se)
*Swedish: gnälla, klaga, tjafsa
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[bitchier]]
*[[bitchiest]]
*[[bitchily]]
*[[bitchiness]]
*[[bitching]]<!--noun-->
*[[bitchy]]
*[[son of a bitch]], [[sonofabitch]]

===External links===
*[http://www.roxanne.org/~maeve/bitch.html The Etymology of the Word Bitch]

[[Category:Vulgarities]]
[[Category:Dogs]]

[[de:bitch]]
[[fa:bitch]]
[[fr:bitch]]
[[gd:bitch]]
[[hu:bitch]]
[[pt:bitch]]
[[fi:bitch]]
[[vi:bitch]]