==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''blank, [[blonc]], [[blaunc]], [[blaunche]]'', from {{F.}} ''[[blanc]]'', feminine ''[[blanche]]'', from {{OHG.}} ''[[blanch]]'' shining, bright, white, {{G.}} blank; akin to {{E.}} blink, see also {{AS.}} ''blanc'' white. See [[Blink]], and confer [[blanch]].

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æŋk|-æŋk]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-both}}

# Without [[color]]; lacking characteristics which give variety.
# Free from writing, printing, or marks; having an empty space to be filled in; as, blank paper; a blank check; a blank ballot.

====Translations====
;without color
{{top}}
*German: [[ausdruckslos]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;free from writing, printing or marks
{{top}}
*German: [[unbeschrieben]], [[unausgefüllt]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A bullet that doesn't harm; a cartridge inserted into a gun that fires no projectile.
# A void space on a paper.
# A space to be filled in on a form or template.
# {{archaic}} A kind of base silver money, first coined in England by Henry V., and worth about 8 pence; also, a French coin of the seventeenth century, worth about 4 pence. Nares.
# {{engineering}} A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by a further operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.
# {{cattag|dominoes}} A piece or division of a piece, without spots; as, the double blank"; the six blank." In blank, with an essential portion to be supplied by another; as, to make out a check in blank.
# The [[space]] character; the character resulting from pressing the space-bar on a keyboard.

====Translations====
;a bullet that doesn't harm
{{top}}
*German: [[Platzpatrone]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[lös patron]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

;a void space on a paper
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a space to be filled in on a form or template
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a kind of base silver money
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a piece of metal
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a piece or division of a piece
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;the space character
{{top}}
*German: [[Leerzeichen]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[mellanslag]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To make void; to [[erase]].
#: ''I '''blanked''' out my previous entry.''

====Translations====
;to make void
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[blanka#Swedish|blanka]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Dutch==

===Adjective===
'''blank''' (alternative form: [[blanke]], comparative: [[blanker]], superlative: [[blankst]])

# [[white]] (when referring to [[race]]), [[caucasian]]

----

==German==

===Adjective===
'''blank'''

# [[pure]], [[sheer]]
#: '''''Blanke''' Wut packte ihn.'' &mdash; Sheer anger seized him.

-----

==Swedish==

===Adjective===
'''blank'''

# [[reflective]], [[shiny]]

====Conjugations====
{| border=1 cellspacing=0
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! rowspan=3 colspan=2 |
! colspan=4 width=400 | Singular
! rowspan=3 width=100 | Plural
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! colspan=2 width=200 | Indefinite form
! colspan=2 width=200 | Definite form
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
| width=100 | ''Common''
| width=100 | ''Neuter''
| width=100 | ''Sexus maskuline''
| width=100 | ''Other sexus''
|- align=center
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=2 width=120 | ''Absolute''
| [[blank]]
| [[blankt]]
| [[blanke]]
| [[blanka]]
| [[blanka]]
|- align=center
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=2 | {{compar}}
| colspan=7 | [[blankare]]
|- align=center
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" rowspan=2 width=60 | {{superl}}
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" width=60 | ''Attribute''
| colspan=2 style="background:#eeeeee" |
| [[blankaste]]
| [[blankaste]]
| [[blankaste]]
|- align=center
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" width=60 | ''Predicative''
| colspan=5 | [[blankast]]
|}

[[ar:blank]]
[[de:blank]]
[[fr:blank]]
[[io:blank]]
[[it:blank]]
[[nl:blank]]
[[pl:blank]]
[[fi:blank]]
[[sv:blank]]
[[vi:blank]]
[[zh:blank]]