==English==

===Etymology===
From Middle English, from Old English [[blæſt|blǣſt]].

===Pronunciation===
*bläst, /blɑːst/, /<tt>blA:st</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɑːst|Rhymes: -ɑːst]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A violent gust of wind.
# A forcible stream of air from an orifice, as from a bellows, the mouth, etc. Hence: The continuous blowing to which one charge of ore or metal is subjected in a furnace; as, to melt so many tons of iron at a blast.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1957''': '''Blast''' was produced by bellows worked by four 'blowers', three of whom worked at a time while the fourth stood ready to replace one of the others. &mdash; H.R. Schubert, ''History of the British Iron and Steel Industry'', p. 146.
# An explosion.
# A loud, sudden sound.
#:''A '''blast''' from a trumpet.''

=====Translations=====
*Finnish: [[tuulenpuuska]] (1), [[räjähdys]] (3)
*French: [[bourrasque]] {{f}} (1), [[souffle]] {{m}} (2), [[explosion]] {{f}} (3)

====See also====
*[[have a blast]]

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|blast||}}

# To make a loud noise.
# To shatter, as if by an explosion.
# To open up a hole in. 
#:'''''Blast''' right through it.''
# To curse; to damn.
#:'''''Blast''' it!  Foiled again.''
# To shoot.
#:''Chewbacca '''blasted''' the Stormtroopers with his laser rifle.''



6.  To return extra salvage to another location.

===Etymology (2)===
From Greek [[βλαστός]]([[blastos]]) meaning "germ or sprout".

====Noun====
'''blast'''

# An immature or undifferentiated cell (e.g., [[lymphoblast]], [[myeloblast]]).

====Derived terms====
*[[blast cell]]



==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''blast''' {{c}} (''definite form'' [[blasten]])

#(''uncountable'') The [[stem]] and [[leaves]] of a vegetable, of which you're only supposed to eat the root. E.g. in [[potatoe]]s or [[carrot]]s.

[[fr:blast]]
[[gl:blast]]
[[it:blast]]
[[hu:blast]]
[[fi:blast]]
[[zh:blast]]