{{rfc|verify etymology, eponym tag, move historical notes to wikipedia?}}
{{see|Blimp}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
Origin not entirely certain, however most historians believe that it is [[onomatopoeia]] for the sound a blimp makes when thumped.
Although there is some disagreement among historians, credit for coining the term is usually given to Lt. A.D. Conningham of the British [[Royal Navy]] in 1915.

There is an often repeated, but false, alternative explanation for the term. The erroneous story is that at some time in the early 20th century, the [[United States]] [[military]] had two classes for airships:  Type A-rigid and Type B-limp, hence “blimp”. In fact, 

:''“there was no American ‘A-class’ of airships as such&mdash;all military aircraft, heavier or lighter-than-air were designated with ‘A’ until the appearance of B-class airships in May 1917.  There was an American B airship&mdash;but there seems to be no record of any official designation of non-rigids as ‘limp’. Further, according to the Oxford Dictionary, the first appearance of the word in print was in 1916, in [[England]], a year before the first B-class airship.”'' (“Etymology of ‘Blimp’” by Dr. A. D. Topping, ''AAHS Journal'', Winter 1963.)

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪmp|-ɪmp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# an [[airship]] constructed with a non rigid [[lifting agent]] container.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# to [[expand]] like a '''blimp''' or [[balloon]]; to become [[fat]]
#: '' After college, she started '''blimping''' and could no longer wear her favorite little black dress. ''

===Quotations===
*'''2004''': the Goodyear '''blimp''' over Giants Stadium &mdash; ''The New Yorker,'' 16 &amp; 23 Feb 2004

===See also===
*[[airship]]
*[[balloon]]
*[[barrage balloon]]
*[[dirigible]]
*[[zeppelin]], [[Zeppelin]]

[[Category:Unknown etymology]]

[[ru:blimp]]
[[vi:blimp]]