==English==

===Noun===

{{en-noun}}

# A small dot [[register]]ed on electronic equipment, such as a [[radar]] or [[oscilloscope]] screen.
#* '''1985:''' Frederick Forsyth, ''The Fourth Protocol''
#*: When the blip began to move up the oscilloscope screen, they followed again.
#* '''2004:''' Asaf Degani, ''Taming HAL: Designing Interfaces Beyond 2001''
#*: At 6:45 pm, the chief officer saw a blip on the radar, approximately seven nautical miles away.
# A short sound of a single [[pitch]], usually [[electronically]] [[generated]].
#* '''2000:''' Ken Norton, ''Ken Norton''
#*: Blip..Blip..Blip..Blip &nbsp;There was that annoying noise again.
#* '''2002:''' Richard Strozzi-Heckler, ''In Search of the Warrior Spirit: Teaching Awareness Disciplines to the Green Berets''
#*: The little &ldquo;blip&rdquo; sound that happens when a balloon is shot down becomes a duet with the player. &ldquo;Blip&rdquo; &ldquo;Damn!&rdquo; &ldquo;Blip&rdquo; &ldquo;Damn!&rdquo;
# {{cattag|after definition 1}} A brief [[aberration]] or [[deviation]] from what is [[expected]] or [[normal]].
#* '''2003:''' Brett Grodeck, ''The First Year - HIV: An Essential Guide for the Newly Diagnosed''
#*: There's a chance this is just a viral blip, an intermittent spike of low-level virus that just happens in people on successful HIV treatment.
#* '''2003:''' Dany Spencer Adams, ''Lab Math: A Handbook of Measurements, Calculations, and Other Quantitative Skills for Use at the Bench''
#*: As a cell moves through the aperture it causes a blip (a brief change) in the voltage when the nonconductive cell briefly displaces the conductive medium.

===Verb===

{{en-verb|blipp|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[skip]] over or [[ignore]] (with ''[[out]]'').
#* '''1990:''' Hearing Before the Special Committee on Aging, United States Senate, ''Defining the Frontier: A Policy Challenge''
#*: If we look, for example, at Laramie County, with a population density of 26.8 per square mile, if you blipped out Cheyenne, Laramie County would change significantly.
#* '''1996:''' John Dunning, ''The Bookman's Wake''
#*: He listened but his mind heard only words and blipped out meanings.
# {{intransitive}} To change [[state]] [[abruptly]], such as between off and on or dark and light, sometimes [[imply]]ing motion.
#* '''2003:''' Dennis Lehane, ''Mystic River''
#*: And yet, they pulsed and glowed and shimmied and flared and stared at you, just like now—staring in at his and Whitey's own lights as they blipped past on the expressway....
#* '''2005:''' Craig Lansford, ''Tales from Salome: Broken Angel''
#*: The screen blipped out as the connection was terminated.... A few seconds passed before the screen again blipped to life.

[[ar:blip]]
[[ru:blip]]
[[vi:blip]]