==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[blossom]]; the [[flower]] of a [[plant]]; an expanded [[bud]].
# Flowers, collectively.
# (''uncountable'') The opening of flowers in general; the state of blossoming or of having the flowers open.
#:''The cherry trees are in bloom.''
# A state or time of beauty, freshness, and [[vigor]]/[[vigour]]; an opening to higher [[perfection]], analogous to that of buds into blossoms.
#:''the bloom of youth''
# The delicate, powdery [[coating]] upon certain growing or newly-gathered [[fruit]]s or leaves, as on grapes, plums, etc.
# Anything giving an appearance of attractive [[freshness]].
# The clouded appearance which varnish sometimes takes upon the surface of a picture.
# A yellowish deposit or powdery coating which appears on well-tanned leather. (Knight.)
# (''mineralogy'') A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals.
#:''the rose-red cobalt bloom''
# The [[spongy]] mass of [[metal]] formed in a [[furnace]] by the [[smelting]] process.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1957''', ''These metallic bodies gradually increasing in volume finally conglomerate into a larger mass, the '''bloom''', which is extracted from the furnace with tongs.''  &mdash; H.R. Schubert, ''History of the British Iron and Steel Industry'', p. 26.

====Synonyms====
*(''flower of a plant''): [[blossom]], [[flower]]
*(''opening of flowers''): [[blossom]], [[flower]]
*(''anything giving an appearance of attractive freshness''): [[flush]], [[glow]]

====Translations====
'''blossom'''
''See [[blossom]]''

'''flowers, collectively'''
''See [[flower]]''

'''the state of blossoming'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kukinta]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''state or time of beauty, freshness, and vigor'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''delicate, powdery coating upon certain growing or newly-gathered fruits or leaves'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''anything giving an appearance of attractive freshness'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''the clouded appearance which varnish sometimes takes upon the surface of a picture'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''yellowish deposit or powdery coating which appears on well-tanned leather'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''mineralogy: a popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''spongy mass of metal formed in a furnace by the smelting process'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|bloom||}}

# To cause to blossom; to make [[flourish]].
# To [[bestow]] a bloom upon; to make blooming or [[radiant]].

====Translations====
'''cause to bloom; make flourish'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[saada]] [[kukkia|kukkimaan]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''make blooming or radiant'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|bloom||}}

# Of a plant, to produce blooms; to open its blooms.
# (''figurative'') Of a person, business, etc, to [[flourish]].

====Synonyms====
*(''open its blooms''): [[blossom]], [[flower]]
*(''flourish'') [[blossom]], [[flourish]], [[thrive]]

====Translations====
'''open its blooms'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kukkia]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''flourish'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kukkia]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[blooming]]

[[fr:bloom]]
[[gl:bloom]]
[[it:bloom]]
[[fi:bloom]]