==English==
===Noun===
# A babbler, a bumbling idiot, a fool.
#*'''1627''' A bluiter buskit lyk a belly blind. &mdash; Alexander Montgomerie, ''Poems''
#*'''1907''' ‘Oh, to the devil wi' ye!’ said Wanton Wully, sweating with vexation. ‘Of all the senseless bells! A big, boss bluiter! I canna compel nor coax ye!’ &mdash; Neil Munro, ''Daft Days''
#*'''1999''' Women go into pubs... to enjoy a quiet drink with friends. And any halitosis-ridden, hand-wandering blooter who thinks otherwise could find himself stuck up his own optic. &mdash; ''Glasglow Daily Record'', July 13
# A hard kick of a ball. Oftentimes the kick is wild as well. Also, a ball kicked in such a way.
#*'''2002''' He of the fabulous long-range shot or the useless blooter professes to love everything about Rangers. &mdash; ''Daily Mail'', December 23.

===Verb===
#To do poor work, to botch a job.
#*'''1996''' There's no way that hoose could be painted right in wan day; they must've blootered it. &mdash; ''Complete Patter'', M. Munro
#To talk foolishly, to babble.
#*'''1913''' Jamie... at last bluitered oot{em}‘I-I-I was up the water, sir, fellin' a deid dowg!’ &mdash; J. Service, ''Memorables Robin Cummell''
#To shriek, to cry in a shrill manner.
#*'''1793''' The whaup, frae the south, that bluiters In the bogs, like a soo. &mdash; R. Brown, ''Carlop Green''
#To kick a ball in a hard and usually wild manner.
#*'''2001''' We'd blooter the ball into the terracing. &mdash; ''Glasglow Sunday Herald'', August 19
#To hit hard so as to break; to smash.
#*'''1990''' A hauf-inch closer an' that wis me... brains blootered aw err the tarmac. &mdash; J. Byrne, ''Your Cheatin' Heart''