==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[blawan]]'' "make an air current, sound a wind instrument" (past tense ''bleow'', pp. ''blawen''), from Proto-Germanic *''[[blæ-anan]]'', from Proto-Indo-European ''*[[bhle-]]'' "to swell, blow up".

===Pronunciation===
*IPA: /blɔʊ/, /bləʊ/
*SAMPA: /'blOU/

===Verb===
{{irregverb|'''to blow'''|'''[[blows]]'''|'''[[blew]]'''|'''[[blown]]'''|'''[[blowing]]'''}}
====[[Intransitive]] Verb====

# To produce an [[air current]]
#:Quotation: '''Blow''', winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! '''blow'''! -- ''King Lear''
# To be propelled by an [[air current]].
#:Example:  The leaves '''blow''' through the streets in the fall.
# To [[explode]]
#:Example:  Get away from that burning gas tank!  It's about to '''blow'''!
# {{slang}} To be very undesirable (see also [[suck]])
#:Example: This '''blows'''!
# (''of a [[cetacean]]'') To [[exhale]] [[visibly]] through the [[spout]] the [[seawater]] it has taken in while [[feeding]].
#:Example:  There's nothing more thrilling to the whale watcher than to see a whale surface and '''blow'''.
#:Example:  There she '''blows'''! (That is, "I see a whale spouting!")

=====Translations=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[吹]]
*Dutch: [[blazen]]
*Esperanto: [[blovi]]
*Finnish: [[tuulla]] (1), [[puhaltaa]] (2), [[räjähtää]] (3)
*French: [[souffler]] (1), [[exploser]] (3)
*German: [[blasen]] (1), [[pusten]] (1), [[wehen]] (2), [[hochgehen]] (3), [[in]] [[die]] [[Luft]] [[gehen]] (3), [[explodieren]] (3)
*Indonesian: [[tiup|meniup]], [[ledak|meledakkan]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[吹く]] ([[ふく]], fuku), [[爆発]]する ([[ばくはつ]]する, bakuhatsu-suru)
*Spanish: [[soplar]]
*{{vi}}: [[thổi]] (1), [[nổ]] (2)
{{bottom}}

====[[Transitive]] Verb====

# To propel by an [[air current]].
#:Example:  '''Blow''' the dust off that book and open it up.
# To [[squander]].
#:Example:  I managed to '''blow''' $1000 at blackjack in under an hour.
# {{vulgar}} [[Fellate]].
#:Example:  Who did you have to '''blow''' to get those backstage passes?
# To [[inflate]]
#:Example:  '''blow''' bubbles, '''blow''' up a balloon
# To [[leave]]
#:Example:  Let's blow this joint.

=====Translations=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[puhaltaa]] (1,4), [[tuhlata]] (2), [[ottaa suihin]] (3)
*French: [[tailler]] la [[pipe]] (3)
*German: [[blasen]] (1), [[wegblasen]] (1), [[fortblasen]] (1), [[hinfortblasen]] (1), [[pusten]] (1), [[wegpusten]] (1)
{{mid}}
*{{vi}}: [[phù phù]], thổi phù phù
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{sb|blow|blows}}

# The act of [[striking]] or [[hit]]ting.
#:''A fabricator is used to direct a sharp '''blow''' to the surface of the stone.''
#:''During an exchange to end round 13, Duran landed a '''blow''' to the mid-section.''
# An [[unfortunate]] [[occurrence]].
#:''A further '''blow''' to the group came in 1917 when Thomson died while canoeing in Algonquin Park.''
# {{slang}} (''uncountable'') [[cocaine]]
# A strong [[wind]].
#:''We're having a bit of a '''blow''' this afternoon.''
# {{colloquial}} A chance to catch one’s breath.
#:''The players were able to get a bit of a '''blow''' during the last timeout.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[isku]] (1), [[takaisku]] (2), [[tuulenpuuska]] (4)
*French: [[coup]] ''m'' (1)
*German: [[Schlag]] ''m'' (1), [[Rückschlag]] ''m'' (2), [[Böe]] ''f'' (4)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}
====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}
*Dutch: [[slag]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[bato]], [[frapo]]

===Related terms===
{{top}}
*[[blow job]]
*[[blow off]]
*[[blow up]]
*[[blowup]]
*[[blow out]]
*[[blowout]]
{{mid}}
*[[blowhard]]
*[[body blow]]
*[[low blow]]
*[[blow-by-blow]]
*[[blower]]
*[[blow it]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:blow]]
[[gl:Blow]]
[[ko:Blow]]
[[io:Blow]]
[[it:blow]]
[[fi:blow]]