==English==

===Adjective===
'''blunt''' ({{compare}} [[blunter]], {{super}} [[bluntest]])

# Having a thick edge or point, as an instrument; not sharp.
# Dull in understanding; slow of discernment; opposed to [[acute]].
# Abrupt in address; plain; unceremonious; wanting the forms of civility; rough in manners or speech.
# Hard to impress or penetrate.

====Synonyms====
*(''having a thick edge or point''): [[dull]], [[pointless]], [[coarse]]
*(''dull in understanding''): [[stupid]], [[obtuse]]
*(''abrupt in address''): [[curt]], [[short]], [[rude]], [[brusque]], [[impolite]], [[uncivil]]

====Translations====

;Having a thick edge or point, as an instrument
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tylppä]], [[tylsä]]
*German: [[stumpf]], [[abgestumpft]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Dull in understanding; slow of discernment
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Abrupt in address; plain; unceremonious
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[suorasukainen]]
*German: [[ungehobelt]], [[unverblümt]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Hard to impress or penetrate
{{top}}
*German: [[abgestumpft]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[fencer]'s [[foil]].
# A short [[needle]] with a strong [[point]].
# [[spliff]]
# A rolled up cigar leaf with marijuana inside.
'''bluntness'''
# Want of edge or point; want of sharpness.
# Abruptness of address; rude plainness.

===Verb===
'''to blunt''' ([[blunts]], [[blunted]], [[blunting]])

# To dull the edge or point of, by making it thicker; to make blunt.
# To repress or weaken, as any appetite, desire, or power of the mind; to impair the force, keenness, or susceptibility, of; as, to blunt the feelings.

====Translations====
;To dull the edge or point of, by making it thicker
{{top}}
*German: [[abstumpfen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To repress or weaken
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[bluntly]]

[[fr:blunt]]
[[it:blunt]]
[[pl:blunt]]