==English==
===Noun===
'''board''' ([[boards]])

# A piece of wood or similar material that has been sawn into a regular shape, usually in preparation for using it in some sort of construction.
# The amount paid for meals and lodging.
# A device (eg, [[switchboard]]) containing electrical switches and other controls and designed to control lights, sound, telephone connections, etc.
# [[Blackboard]] or [[whiteboard]].
# A committee that manages some business of an organization.
# '''Boards''': Examinations given for entry to college or to qualify for a profession.  (From ''college boards''.)
# (''basketball, colloquial'') A [[rebound]].

====Related terms====
*[[boardroom]]
*[[boardwalk]]
*[[body board]]<!-- maybe also hyphenated and/or 1-word versions -->
*[[boogie board]]<!-- maybe also hyphenated and/or 1-word versions -->
*[[chipboard]]
*[[emery board]]
*[[keyboard]]
*[[skateboard]]
*[[surfboard]]
*[[circuit board]]
*[[ironing board]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[plank]] ''f'' (1), [[logement]] ''n'' (2), [[paneel]] ''n''    (3), [[bord]] ''n'' (3,4), [[raad]] ''m'' (5)
*Finnish: [[lauta]] (1), [[taulu]] (4), [[johtokunta]], [[lautakunta]], [[hallitus]] (5)
*German: [[Brett]] ''n'' (1,3), [[Pult]] ''n'' (3), [[Tafel]] ''f'' (4)
*Spanish: [[tabla]]
*Swedish: [[skiva]] (1) ''c'', [[tavla]] (4) ''c'', [[styrelse]] (5) ''c''

===Verb===
'''to board''' ([[boards]], [[boarded]], [[boarding]])

# To step or climb onto or otherwise enter a boat or aircraft.
# To provide someone with meals and lodging, usually in exchange for money.
# To receive meals and lodging in exchange for money.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[aan boord gaan]] (1), [[logeren]] (2,3)
*Finnish: [[nousta]] (1), [[majoittaa]] (2)
*German: [[entern]] (1)
*Swedish: [[borda]] (1)