{{dablink|"Bob's Yer Uncle" was also a song by [[Happy Mondays]] appearing on their 1990 album [[Pills 'n' Thrills and Bellyaches]]}}

'''Bob's your uncle''' is a slang expression in [[British English]] meaning "no problem" or "the solution is simple", as in: "insert the plug, press the switch, and Bob's your uncle." It is often thought to have originated when [[Robert Arthur Talbot Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury]] promoted his nephew, Irish politician [[Arthur Balfour]], to the esteemed post of [[Chief Secretary for Ireland]] in 1886. As he had previously appointed Balfour to the posts of  President of the [[Local Government Board]] and [[Secretary for Scotland]] this led to accusations of [[nepotism]]. Balfour would ultimately prove that his uncle's faith was justified and rise to the position of [[Prime Minister of the United Kingdom|Prime Minister]] in 1902.<ref>http://tafkac.org/language/etymology/bobs_your_uncle.html</ref> This theory of origin is questionable as the first use in print is not until 1937.

==References==
<references/>

{{vocab-stub}}
[[Category:Slang]]
A rather more probable, but less exciting, theory has it that it derives from the slang phrase all is bob, meaning that everything is safe, pleasant or satisfactory. This dates back to the seventeenth century or so (it’s in Captain Francis Grose’s Dictionary of the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francis_Grose, Vulgar Tongue] of 1785). There have been several other slang expressions containing bob, some associated with thievery or gambling, and from the eighteenth century on it was also a common generic name for somebody you didn’t know. Any or all of these might have contributed to its genesis.  The expression may also be a reference to Sir Robert Peel, the founder of England's Metropolitan Police, meaning one is taken care of, and that things are thus all right.