{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|help|number|alone|340|body|point|letter|become}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[bodig|bodiġ]]'', of unknown origin.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈbɒdi/}}
*{{audio|en-us-body.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒdi|-ɒdi]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|bodies}}

# Physical frame.
## The physical structure of a human or animal seen as one single organism.
##:''I saw them walking from a distance, their '''bodies''' strangely angular in the dawn light.''
## The fleshly or corporeal nature of a human, as opposed to the spirit or soul.
##:''The '''body''' is driven by desires, but the soul is at peace.''
## A [[corpse]].
##:''Her '''body''' was found at four o'clock, just two hours after the murder.''
# Main section.
## The [[torso]], the main structure of a human or animal frame excluding the extremities (limbs, head, tail).
##:''The boxer took a blow to the '''body'''.''
## The largest or most important part of anything, as distinct from its appendages or accessories.
##:''The bumpers and front tyres were ruined, but the '''body''' of the car was in remarkable shape.''
## {{archaic}} The section of a [[dress]] extending from the neck to the waist, excluding the arms.
##:''Penny was in the scullery, pressing the '''body''' of her new dress.''
# Collection of individuals considered as one.
## An organisation, company or other authoritative group.
##:''The local train operating company is the managing '''body''' for this section of track.''
## A group of men or people having a common purpose or opinion; a [[mass]].
##:''I was escorted from the building by a '''body''' of armed security guards.''
## A unified collection of details, knowledge or information.
##:''We have now amassed a '''body''' of evidence which points to one conclusion.''
# Piece of matter or substance.
## Any [[physical]] [[object]] or material thing.
##:''All '''bodies''' are held together by internal forces.''
## Substance; phyical presence.
##:''We have given '''body''' to what was just a vague idea.''
##[[Category:Wine]] Comparative [[viscosity]], solidity or [[substance]] (in wine, colours etc.).
##:''The rioja, sadly, lacked '''body'''.''

====Synonyms====
*See [[WikiSaurus:body]] (1)
*See [[WikiSaurus:corpse]] (1)

====Related terms====
*[[body check]]
*[[body conscious]]
*[[body image]]

====Translations====
;The physical structure of a human or animal
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[trup]] {{m}}
*Basque: [[soin]]
*Breton: [[korv]] {{m}}
*Bulgarian: [[тяло]] {{n}}
*Catalan: [[cos]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[tijelo]] {{n}}
*Czech: [[tělo]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[lichaam]] {{n}}
*Esperanto: [[korpo]]
*Finnish: [[ruumis]], [[keho]]
*French: [[corps]] {{m}}
*German: [[Körper]] {{m}} (living), [[Leichnam]] (dead)
*Guaraní: [[rete]], [[tete]]
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[גוף]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[test]]
*Italian: [[corpo]] {{m}}
*Korean: [[본체]]
*Latin: [[corpus]] {{n}}
*Lithuanian: [[kūnas]] {{m}}
*Old English: [[hræw|hrǣw]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[cia&#322;o]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[corpo]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[corp]] {{f}} and {{m}}
*Russian: [[тело]] [t'élo] {{n}}
*Serbian (Cyrillic): [[тело]] [telo] {{n}}
*Serbian (Latin): [[telo]] {{n}}
*Slovene: [[telo]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[cuerpo]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[kropp]] {{c}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[శరీరము]] (Sareeramu), [[కాయము]] (kaayamu)
{{bottom}}

;The torso
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[корпус]] {{m}}
*Catalan: [[cos]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[trup]] {{m}}
*Czech: [[trup]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[corpus]] {{n}}
*French: [[corpus]] [[:fr:corpus|fr]] {{m}}
*German: [[Rumpf]] {{m}}, [[Leib]] {{m}}
*Hebrew: [[גוף]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[törzs]]
*Italian: [[corpo]] [[:it:corpo|it]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[団体]]
*Korean: [[본체]]
*[[Lithuanian]]: approxim. [[visuma]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[corpo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[корпус]] [k'órpus] {{m}}, [[туловище]] [túlovišče] {{n}}
*[[Serbian (Cyrillic)]]: [[труп]] [trup] {{m}}
*[[Serbian (Latin)]]: [[trup]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[trup]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[torso]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[kropp]] {{c}}
*Telugu: [[మొండెము]] (moMDemu)
{{bottom}}

;a collection of knowledge
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[cos]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[cuerpo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;main portion of a car
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[karroñsadur]] {{m}} -ioù
*Bulgarian: [[каросерия]] {{f}}
*[[Catalan]]: carroserria
*Croatian: [[karoserija]] {{f}}
*French: [[carrosserie]] {{f}}
*German: [[Karosserie]] {{f}}
*Hebrew: [[מרכב]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[karosszéria]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[carrozzeria]] {{f}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[каросерија]] [karoserija] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[karoserija]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[karoserija]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[carrocería]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[kaross]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

;corpse
{{top}}
*Croatian: [[truplo]] {{n}}
*German: [[Leiche]] {{f}}, [[Leichnam]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[holttest]]
{{mid}}
*Old English: [[lic|līċ]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[corpo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[труп]] [trup] {{m}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[трупло]] [truplo] {{n}}
*:Latin: [[truplo]] {{n}}, [[cadaver|cadāver]] {{n}}
*Slovene: [[truplo]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[cuerpo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;any physical or material substance
{{top}}
*Croatian: [[tjelo]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[kappale]]
*Hungarian: [[test]]
*Italian: [[corpo]] [[:it:corpo|it]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[corpo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[тело]] [t'élo] {{n}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[тело]] [telo] {{n}}
*:Roman: [[telo]] {{n}}
*Slovene: [[telo]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[cuerpo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;characteristic sunstance, weight of wine etc.
*German: [[Körper]] {{m}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: [جسم]], [[جسد]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[身体]] (shēntǐ), [[身]], [[躯体]]
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[σώμα]] (s[o]ma)
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[גוף]] [[:he:גוף|he]] (guf)
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[corpo]]

*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[tubuh]], [[badan]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[からだ]], [[体]] (karada), [[身体]] (しんたい, shintai), [[身]] ([[み]], mi), [[物体]] (object), [[胴体]] (trunk)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[corpus]]
*{{ttbc|Low Saxon}}: [[Kropp]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[тіло]] {{n}} (t'''i'''lo)

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''body''' {{m}}

# A [[leotard]].

[[Category:Italian nouns]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Anatomy]]

[[ang:body]]
[[ar:body]]
[[zh-min-nan:body]]
[[de:body]]
[[el:body]]
[[fa:body]]
[[fr:body]]
[[gl:body]]
[[ko:body]]
[[hy:body]]
[[io:body]]
[[it:body]]
[[kk:body]]
[[hu:body]]
[[ja:body]]
[[pt:body]]
[[ru:body]]
[[simple:body]]
[[sr:body]]
[[fi:body]]
[[sv:body]]
[[ta:body]]
[[vi:body]]
[[uk:body]]
[[zh:body]]