==English==

===Etymology===
American slang origin, reminiscent of [[w:Humphry Bogart|Humphry Bogart]]'s signature practice of talking with a cigarette hanging out of his mouth, instead of smoking '''or''' talking.  Used when a marajuana [[joint]] or [[pipe]] or [[bong]] is being passed around a circle, and someone dallies instead of dutifully taking a [[hit]] and passing it on.

===Noun===
'''bogart'''
# (''slang, also '''Bogart drag''''') A very long [[inhalation]] of [[smoke]], particularly [[marijuana]].
#: ''He took a huge '''bogart''' from the joint before finally passing it on.''
# (''slang'') Excess.
#: ''There are over two dozen related terms for [[station]]?  What a '''bogart'''!''
# (''slang'') One given to [[excess]], whether good or ill.
#: ''Smith is the writer, director, star and producer.  What a '''bogart'''!''
# (''slang'') An [[obnoxious]] and [[overbearing]] person.
#: ''He walked in, swiped my beer off the table and chugged it.  I said "Dude, don't be a '''bogart'''," but he didn't care.''
# (''slang'') A [[disappointment]].
#: ''Then right in the middle of their best song, the power went out?  That's a '''bogart'''.''
# (''slang'' The type of thing that happens when [[Reggie]] goes really [[crazy]].
#:"We were just hanging at the pizza parlor, and these two big guys with machetes came in, and Reggie just starts foaming at the mouth  Such raw emotion.  It was one of the bigger '''bogarts''' I've seen in recent times.

===Transitive Verb===
'''to bogart'''
# (''slang, whimsical'') To be greedy with in general.
#: ''Dude, don't '''bogart''' the chocolate fudge!''
#: ''Don't '''bogart''' the can, man.''
#: ''Nathan, quit '''bogart'''ing the tape.''

[[Category:English slang]]