==English==

===Etymology===
Possibly named after the [[w:Bogan River|Bogan River]] area in Australia.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{italbrac|Australian}} A person who is, or is perceived to be, unsophisticated or of a lower class background. The stereotype includes having speech and [[mannerism]]s that are considered to denote poor education and uncultured upbringing.  Typical traits include drinking beer, smoking, religiously following sport, having an interest in Australian-build cars (eg. Holdens, Fords etc.) and Hard Rock music. The term was usually used in reference to an anglo-celtic or [[indigenous]] Australian. It mostly excluded Australians who belong to other ethnic groups that were established relatively recently, although this is changing. Its meaning is more or less analagous to the US american [[redneck]].
# {{italbrac|New Zealand}} An anglo-celtic member of a lower [[socioeconomic]] group historically classified by the wearing of black [[jumper]]s, black [[T-shirt]]s decorated with designs including such bands as Led Zeppelin, The Doors and Nirvana or favourite drinks such as Jack Daniels or Jim Beam. Bogans often drive larger cars and are often referred to as [[petrolhead]]s.
# {{italbrac|North Western Ontario}} A slang word for a Native person typically perceived as having gangster ties.

====Synonyms====
*{{italbrac-colon|uncool young person}} [[dag]] {{italbrac|Australia}}
*{{italbrac-colon|in New Zealand sense}} [[bevan]] {{italbrac|Queensland, Australia}}, [[westy]] ''or'' [[westie]] {{italbrac|Australia, especially Sydney}}

====See also====
*[[cashed up bogan]]
*[[hoon]]
*[[booner]]

===Adjective===
'''bogan''' {{italbrac|used only [[attributively]]; not [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]}}

# Characteristic of a bogan.
#: ''He had a '''bogan''' mullet.''

----

==Old English==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/ˈboɣɑn/}}

===Noun form===
'''bogan'''
# {{plural of|[[boga#Old English|boga]]}}

[[ru:bogan]]