'''''Bogger''''' is an [[Ireland|Irish]] insulting term for someone not from a city. Under other circumstances, it can be extended to refer to those not from [[The Pale]], or even more tightly, to those not from [[Dublin]]. People in Ireland (usually from Dublin) would also include people from Cork city as boggers.

''Boggers'' are usually thought of as stupid, backwards, and slow to adapt to change. The word comes from [[bog]], the marsh-like [[peat]]-baring wastelands that make up much of the Irish countryside. Phrases have also developed off the term, including ''Bog Shopping Day'', referring to the [[December 8|8th of December]], a traditional [[Catholic]] holiday, and the day on which people from the countryside would traditionally make their annual visit to [[Dublin]] to do their Christmas shopping. The reason for this was that schools and businesses in country areas did (and still do) close on this day, whereas those in Dublin did not.

==External links==
[http://www.google.ie/search?hl=en&ie=UTF-8&q=Bogger&btnG=Search&meta=cr%3DcountryIE Google Ireland-only search for "Bogger"]

[[Category:Irish culture]]
 Boggers are famous in Connemara, County Galway for their unique pronunciation. In alot of cases, people move to America having not yet mastered the English language (gaelic being their native tongue). When these individuals return to Ireland they speak with a pseudo-American accent...for example   
-    
- Vodka = Wodka   
- Vomit = Womit   
- Volvo = Wolwo   
- Chubby = Fluffy