==English==

===Etymology===
Swahili: ''boma'': a place of concealment. 

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

#An [[enclosure]] usually made of thorn bushes, and latterly of steel fencing, for protection from [[marauders]].
#* “Orders had been given for the enterance to the '''boma''' to be blocked up, and accordingly we listened in the expectation of hearing the lion force his way through the bushes with his prey. As a matter of fact the doorway had not been closed and while we were wondering what the lion could be doing inside the '''boma''' for so long, he was outside reconnoitering our position. ''J H Patterson The Man Eaters of Tsavo and Other East African Adventures Kessinger Publishing 2004. p.17''
#*“'''1993'''.Carrying the hot water kettle, Mark follows the footpath through the dark camp to the '''boma'''. Surrounded by tall grass the boma is a three-sided structure of sticks and reeds standing at the edge of Marula Puku. ''Cordelia Dykes Owens  The Eye of the Elephant Houghton Mifflin Books ISBN 0395680905.  P91.''
#*'''2003'''“Recent replacement of rolled mesh with '''bomas''' made of portable, flexible reinforced mesh panels have nearly eliminated predation. ''People and Wildlife, Conflict Or Co-existence? Rosie Woodroffe, Simon Thirgood, Alan Rabinowitz. Cambridge University Press P298.''
#A [[stockade]] made of bushes and thorns.
#*2003 “the area has three main groups. The Wamasi and Waarushaare still settled on the '''boma''' system where the clan settle in one cluster called a '''boma''' comprised of several houses enclosed in a fence leaving the centre open for keeping livestock. ''Harold Brookfield, Helen Parsons, Muriel Brookfield Agrodiversity United Nations University Press p108.''
#A [[hide]].
#*'''1922'''“You try to arrange the scene so the moonlight will be on the bait with a clear background against which the lion will show up. You pile as much fresh brush as you can on your thicket or '''boma''', as the hiding place is called, for the lion can see as well by day as by night. ''Mary Hastings Bradley. On the Gorilla trail. Quoted in Heart Shots: Women write about hunting. Editor Mary Zeiss Stange Stackpole Books. p. 182''
#A [[hut]].
#*'''2004''' “The exotic beauty of our Masaailand is a marvel to our creator, she thought as she stepped back into her boma, a typical Masaai hut built with grass, dry sticks and twigs and covered with cow dung for insulation. ''Jacyee Aniagolu-Johnson Mikela. iUniverse. p.3''
#(East African) A military or police post or [[magistracy]].
#*Muyumbwe boma needs police post By A Correspondent. Gwembe district police officer-in-charge Adams Gondwe has appealed to Government to put up a police post in Muyumbwe '''boma''' to replace one that was washed away by floods last year. ''News report''. 
#A type of [[fertilizer]] rich in animal dung.
#* The cattle are usually corralled overnight which enables farmers to collect farmyard or '''boma''' manure
# A method of [[composting]].
#* The '''boma''' method is used on farms where there are animals which are kept in enclosures where droppings are concentrated. 

====See also====
*[[Boma]]
*[[BOMA]]
*[[kraal]]

[[fr:boma]]
[[ru:boma]]