==English==

A term of appreciation that is typically expressed as an exclamation.


===Pronunciation===
*\Bon"zer`\


===Usage===

'''[[colloquial]]''', '''[[slang]]'''


===Adjective===

#(Australia and New Zealand) Brilliant! Excellent! Exceptionally Good! Extraordinary! Fantastic! Great! Remarkable! Splendid! Super! Wonderful! Remarkable! Awesome (colloquial)! Well executed!


===Adverb===

#(Australia and New Zealand) Beautifully. Brilliantly. Excellently. Exceptionally Well. Extraordinarily. Remarkably. Splendidly. Superlatively. Wonderfully. Awesomely (colloquial).


===Noun===

#(Australia and New Zealand) Something or someone that excites admiration by being extraordinarily good, beautiful or well executed.
#(New South Wales) A type of apple.
#(Business) A brand name for a line of can openers:  [[Bonzer Can Openers]].
#(Business) A brand name for a flexible race track system for micro radio-controlled cars: [[Bonza Mat]].
#[(Surfing)] A type of [[surf board]] in the [[shortboard]] family: [[bonzer boards]].

===Synonyms===

'''[[bonser]]''', 
'''[[bonza]]''', 
'''[[bottler]]''' (colloquial)
'''[[ripper]]''' (colloquial)

===See also===

*[[Bonza Bottler Day]]
*[[Bonzer Board]]


===External Links===

*[http://www.anu.edu.au/andc/ozwords/May_2003/bonzer.html "A Bonzer Conundrum"] by Frederick Ludowyk
*[http://honoluluweekly.com/archives/coverstory%201999/6-16-99%20Boards/6-16-99%20Boards.html Surf Wars] by John Wythe White
*[http://www.travel-library.com/pacific/australia/stybr-language.html Australian English Glossary from A to Zed - Travelogue]