==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uː|-uː]]

===Interjection===
'''boo'''

# '''boo!''' An [[loud]] [[exclamation]] intended to [[scare]] someone, especially a child.  Usually used when one has been [[hidden]] from the [[victim]] and then suddenly [[appear]]ed [[unexpectedly]].
# '''boo.''' A word used [[ironically]] in a situation where one might have scared someone, but said someone was not scared.  Not said as loudly as in definition 1.
# '''boo.''' A word used by someone who is inherently [[scary]], such as a [[bully]] or a [[vampire]], to make a weaker person who is [[scared stiff]] [[flee]].  Usually used quietly, as with definition 2.
# '''boo!''' An exclamation used by a member of an [[audience]], as at a stage [[play]] or sports [[game]], to indicate [[derision]] or [[disapproval]] of what has just occurred.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[pöö]] (1,2,3), [[huu]] (1,2,3), [[buu]] (4)
*French: [[bouh]] (1)
*Greek: [[μπου]] (1)
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[bu]] (1,2,3,4)
*Russian: [[фу]] (4)
*Swedish: [[bu]] (1,2,3,4)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A derisive shout (as interjection definition 4 above).
# Significant other. (Ex. John is my '''boo'''.)

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To shout extended boos derisively.
#: ''When he took the podium, the crowd '''booed'''.''

====Quotations====
*'''2004''', Nobody '''booed''' and nobody clapped &mdash; ''The New Yorker,'' 18 Oct 2004

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Greek: [[μπου]]
*Portuguese: [[vaiar]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[bua]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To shout extended boos at someone derisively.
#: ''The protestors loudly '''booed''' the visitng senator.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Swedish: [[bua ut]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[de:boo]]
[[gl:boo]]
[[ru:boo]]
[[st:boo]]
[[vi:boo]]
[[zh:boo]]