==English==
{{wikipedia}}
{{rank|taking|information|seem|468|book|story|deep|meet}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/bʊk/}}
*{{ADH|bo͝ok}}
*{{SAMPA|/bUk/}}
*{{audio|en-us-book.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Etymology===
From Middle English [[bok]] < Old English [[boc|bōc]]. Of the same origin as the word [[beech]].
<!--From Old Saxon via Anglo-Saxon ''bece''. In modern [[Low Saxon]], ''Book'' means both "book" and "beech".-->

===Noun===
'''book''' (''plural:'' '''books''')

# Sheets of paper bound together to hinge at one edge. If blank sheets of paper this is commonly referred to as a notebook, however most books are printed material. 
# A long document stored (as [[data]]) which is or will become a book; i.e., an ebook.
# Records of betting — "a book is kept". Derives from the use of a notebook to record what each person has bet. 
# A convenient collection of small paper items for use individually — "a book of stamps", "a book of raffle tickets". 
# A major division of a published work (larger than a chapter), commonly an academic publication or the Bible. 
# The script to a musical. 
# (usually in plural) Records of the accounts of a business. 

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[lib/ër; ~ri]] {{m}} [[~ra; ~rat]]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[كتاب]]}} (kitá:b) {{m}}
*Bosnian: [[kǌiga#Bosnian|kǌiga]] {{f}}
*[[Breton]]: [[levr]] {{m}}, levrioù {{p}} (1)
*Bulgarian: [[книга]] (kníga) {{f}} (1)
*[[Catalan]]: [[llibre]] {{n}}
*Chinese:
:Cantonese: [[書]] (suè)
:Mandarin: [[书]] (shū)
*Croatian: {{Unicode|[[kǌiga#Croatian|kǌiga]]}} {{f}}
*Czech: [[kniha]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[bog#Danish|bog]]
*Dutch: [[boek]] {{n}}
*Esperanto: [[libro]]
*Finnish: [[kirja]]
*French: [[livre]] {{m}} (1)
*[[Frisian]]: [[boek]] {{n}}
*German: [[Buch]] {{n}}
*[[Gothic]]: [[boka]]
*Greek: [[βιβλίο]] (vivlío) {{n}}
*[[Guarani]]: [[kuatia ñe'ẽ]]
*Hebrew: [[ספר]]
*Hindi: [[किताब]] (kitāb), [[पुस्तक]] (pustak)
*Hungarian: [[könyv]]
*[[Ido]]: [[libro]]
*Indonesian: [[buku]], [[kitab]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[libro]]
*Irish: [[leabhar]]
*Italian: [[libro]] {{m}} (1,5,7)
*Japanese: [[本]] ([[ほん]], hon) (1)
*Korean: [[책]] ([[冊]], chaeg)
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[liber]] {{m}}, [[codex]] {{m}}
*Lithuanian: [[knyga]] {{f}} (1,2)
*[[Low Saxon]]: [[Book]]
*Maltese: [[ktieb]]
*[[Manchu]]: [[bithe]]
*Mongolian: [[ном]] (nom)
*Norwegian: [[bok]]
*[[Novial]]: [[libre]]
*Old English: [[boc|bōc]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[كتاب|كِتاب]]}} (ketāb)
*Polish: [[książka]] {{f}}, [[księga]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[livro]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[carte]]{{f}}
*Russian: [[книга#Russian|книга]] (kníga) {{f}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[књига#Serbian|књига]] {{f}}
*:Roman: {{Unicode|[[kǌiga#Serbian|kǌiga]]}} {{f}}
*Slovak: [[kniha]] {{f}} (1, 5)
*Slovenian: {{Unicode|[[kǌiga#Slovene|kǌiga]]}} {{f}}
*Spanish: [[libro]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[bok]]
*Tagalog: [[libro]], [[aklat]]
*Turkish: [[kitap]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[papera]]
*Ukrainian: [[книжка]] (knižka) {{f}}, [[книга#Ukrainian|книга]] {{Unicode|(kniǥa)}} {{f}} ''elevated style''
*[[Urdu]]: (kitaab)
*[[Volapük]]: [[buk]]
*Vietnamese: (cuốn, bộ) [[sách]] (1,5), [[tập]] (4)
*Welsh: [[llyfr]]
{{bottom}}

====See also====
*[[bet]]
*[[novel]]
*[[tome]]
*[[volume]]

====Derivatives====
*[[bookbinder]]
*[[bookie]]
*[[bookish]]
*[[bookmaker]]

===Transitive verb===
'''book''', '''[[books]]''', '''[[booking]]''', '''[[booked]]'''

# reserve (something) for future use.
#:''I want to book a hotel room for tomorrow night''
#:''I can book tickets for the concert next week''
# penalise (someone) (for an offence).
#:''The police booked him for driving too fast''
<!-- DO NOT RENUMBER NEXT ITEM: Be sure this item stays as #3, as it is referenced by 'run' as a synonym -->
#(''slang'') To travel very quickly.
#:''He was really booking, until he passed the speed trap.''
# write down.
#:''They booked that message from the hill''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[запазвам]] (zapazvam) (1)
*Czech: [[rezervovat]], [[zarezervovat]]
*Dutch: [[boeken]], [[reserveren]], [[bestellen]], [[inrekenen]], [[arresteren]], [[ten laste leggen]]
*Esperanto: [[rezervi]]
*Finnish: [[varata]], [[tehdä]] [[varaus]]
*French: [[réserver]] (1)
*German: [[buchen]], [[reservieren]] (1)
*Greek: [[κάνω]] [[κράτηση]] (kánō krátēsē), [[κλείνω]] (kleínō)
*Indonesian: [[pesan]] (1)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[reservar]] (1)
*Italian: [[riservare]] (1)
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[予約]]する ([[よやく]]する, yoyaku surú) (1)
*Korean: [[예약하다]] ([[豫約]], yeyaghada) (1)
*Norwegian: [[reservere]]
*Polish: [[rezerwować]], [[zarezerwować]] (1), [[karać]], [[ukarać]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[reservar]] (1), [[marcar]] (2), [[multar]] (2)
*Russian: [[забронировать]] (zabronírovat’) (1)
*Slovak: [[rezervovať]] (1), [[zarezervovať]] (1)
*Spanish: [[reservar]] (1)
*Swedish: [[boka]] (1)
*Turkish: [[reservasyon]] (1), [[yer ayırma]] (1)
*[[Volapük]]: [[resärfön]] (1)
{{bottom}}

====Synonyms====
*(1): [[reserve]]
*(2): [[penalise]], [[penalize]]
*(3): [[run]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[bs:Book]]
[[de:book]]
[[fr:book]]
[[io:Book]]
[[it:book]]
[[pl:book]]
[[pt:Book]]
[[ro:Book]]
[[fi:book]]
[[sv:book]]