==English==
=== Etymology ===
Contraction of "[[cybernetic]] [[organism]]", via [[cyborg]]
===Proper Noun===
'''Borg''' (''plural'' [[Borgs]]) 

#(''uncountable'') A fictional [[humanoid]] race in the [[w:Star Trek|Star Trek]] universe.
#A member of aforesaid fictional race
#:'''usage note''': Never employed in the plural within [[w:Star Trek|Star Trek]] novels and films.
#(''slang'') one who proselytises or assimilates
#:'''quotations'''
#:*2005:"Go for the fun of it (yes, I am one of the Borgs) and don't let equipment bother you. Just remember this even when the Borgs assimilate you." &mdash; [http://www.varp.net/photos/altindex.html]

====Translations====
*Swedish: [[borg#Swedish|Borg]] (1,2) ''c''

===Noun===
'''borg''' (''plural'' [[borgs]])

#[[cyborg]]
#:'''quotations''':
#:*2003:"You'll also have to put together a team or Force of borgs that you won from winning battles. Before battle you assemble your Force within the GF Energy Limit. Each '''borg''' has a cost attached to them and this GF Energy Limit is kind of like your budget." &mdash; "Gotcha Force review", GameFAQs, [http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/gamecube/review/R65377.html]

=== Verb ===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|Borg||}}
(Use of other than the infinitive is rare.  Lowercase spelling also occurs, less commonly.)

# (''slang'') to assimilate rivals, via corporate acquisition or religious proselytisation
#:'''quotations''':
#:*2003:"NYTIMES - Microsoft trying to '''borg''' google." &mdash; [http://groups.yahoo.com/group/silk-list/message/9479?viscount=100]
#:*2004:"The Christians could afford to spend generations converting northern Europe and that's exactly what they did.  We have that example from history.  We know there are other faiths out there that want to wipe us out, and there are other faiths out there that want to '''Borg''' us.  The fact that some are still here after decades means we aren't giving in this time, and you're one of the ones here over a decade." &mdash; [http://www.talkaboutreligion.com/group/alt.religion.asatru/messages/130372.html]
#:*2004:"They are trying to turn you into them. They are trying to '''borg''' us." &mdash; [http://forums.darkenbane.com/showpost.php?p=46395&postcount=1]
# (''slang'') to turn into a [[cyborg]], to implant machinery into people with the intent of controlling or assimilating them
#:'''quotations''':
#:*2000:"We already do it and they tell us they're going to '''Borg''' us with fucking stuff into our brains and we won't have to talk to each other." &mdash; "Charles Hayward", ''FREQ'' ([http://www.freq.org.uk/hayward.html online])
#:*2001:"Intel wants to '''Borg''' us!" &mdash; Rick C. Hodgin, GeekNews ([http://www.geek.com/news/geeknews/2001sep/bch20010919007931.htm online])

==Danish==
===Noun===
'''borg''' ''c''

# [[castle]], [[stronghold]]

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''borg'''

#A fortified [[castle]]

{| border=1 cellspacing=0
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=5 align=center | '''Common'''
|-
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! rowspan=2 | 
| colspan=2 width=105| Singular 
| colspan=2 | Plural
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''Definite'' 
| width=105 |  ''Indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''Definite''
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Nominative'' 
| [[borg]]
| [[borgen]]
| [[borgar]]
| [[borgarna]]
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Genitive'' 
| [[borgs]]
| [[borgens]]
| [[borgars]]
| [[borgarnas]]
|}

===Noun===
'''borg'''

#(''Star Trek'') A [[borg#English|borg]]

{| border=1 cellspacing=0
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=5 align=center | '''Common'''
|-
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! rowspan=2 | 
| colspan=2 width=105| Singular 
| colspan=2 | Plural
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''Definite'' 
| width=105 |  ''Indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''Definite''
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Nominative'' 
| [[borg]]
| [[borgen]]
| [[borger]]
| [[borgerna]]
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Genitive'' 
| [[borgs]]
| [[borgens]]
| [[borgers]]
| [[borgernas]]
|}