==English==
===Noun===
'''borough''' (''plural:'' [[boroughs]])

#An [[administrative]] [[district]] in some cities, e.g., [[London]] and [[New York]].
#A [[town]] having a [[municipal]] [[corporation]] and certain traditional [[right]]s.
#Other [[similar]] administrative units in cities and states in various parts of the world.

====Translations====
'''administrative district'''
*Russian: [[район]] (rajón) {{m}}

====Translations====
'''municipal burough'''
*Russian: [[самоуправление|город, имеющий самоуправление]] (górod, iméjuščij samoupravlénije) {{m}}

===Proper noun===
'''The Borough'''
#The area, properly called [[Southwark]], just south of [[London]] Bridge.

===Etymology===
The [[word]] ''borough'' has cognates in words and place names in virtually every [[Indo-European]] and [[Semitic]] [[language]], as well as others.

Our modern English word ''borough'' derived from the Old English [[burh]], and its dialectal variants including ''burg'', ''beorh'', ''beorg'', ''byrig''. It is similar to the [[German]] ''burg'' and ''berg'', these words also appearing in [[Dutch]]. The Saxon words have a range of meanings, including:

#[[hill]]
#[[heap]]
#[[mountain]] (cf. German ''[[Berg]]'')
#[[fort]] (cf. [[burg]])
#[[castle]] (cf. [[burg]])
#[[tower]]
#[[city]] (cf. [[Edinburgh]], [[Strasbourg]], [[Nuremberg]], [[St. Petersburg]], [[Pittsburgh]], etc.)
#[[house]]
#[[tomb]]

(Any or all of the above meanings are realised in the words in different languages below.)

''Borough'' is originally a word for a fortified town or city, and for a hill (hills being favourite places of defence where towns/cities were hence built).

The word traces back to the [[Chaldean]] ([[Aramaic]]) ''perach'', meaning ''growth''. Words derived from this in the sense of a hill being a growth on the ground, as indeed is a fort, city, etc. In the ancient, classical languages, these include the likes of the [[Greek]] [[πύργος]], and the [[Latin]] ''[[parcus]]''. ''Parcus'' means "saving" and is the origin of the English "park"; ''parcus'' is also the [[Hittite]] word.

Cognate words for ''borough'' in other languages and language families include:

'''[[Germanic]]:''' [[Gothic]] ''bairgs'', [[Danish]] ''borg'', the [[Norwegian]] city of [[Bergen]]. Anglo-Saxon verb ''beorgan'' and the Dutch and German verb ''[[bergen]]'', all meaning to keep, save, make secure.

'''[[Celtic]]:''' [[Irish]] ''brog'', [[Breton]] ''bourg''. [[Welsh]] has the word ''bwr'' or ''bwrc'' meaning wall, rampart or defence; and ''bwrdais'', meaning [[burgess]].

'''[[Romance]]:''' Modern Romance languages have words more similar to the German than the Latin, viz. [[French]] ''bourg'', [[Italian]] ''borgo'', [[Spanish]] ''burgo'' and the city of [[Burgos]].

'''Semitic''': The [[Arabic]] and [[Syriac]] languages both also have words closer to the German than to Chaldean, and they may be borrowed from Indo-European. The Arabic is {{ARchar|[[برج|بُرْجٌ]]}} (burj), as in the [[Burj Al-Arab]] tower in [[Dubai]], and the Syriac is ''burga''.

'''[[Sanskrit]]''': ''bura''

'''[[Slavonic]]''': The [[Czech]] [[capital]] of [[Prague]] (in Czech, ''Praha''). [[Russian]] [[сберегать]] (sberegát’) (to keep, save, make secure), and [[берег]] (riverbank, shore, coast).

Cognate words also appear, for example, in the [[Turkish]] city of [[Bergama]], the [[Armenian]] word ''pardzr'', and in Thai where many place names end in ''-buri'' e.g., ''Sangklaburi'', ''Ketchanaburi'', where it is a borrowing from Sanskrit.

There is no word quite like ''borough'', in its many guises. As we have seen, it is a very international word indeed, yet it is not like more modern words such as ''telephone'' or ''internet''. This is due to the ''borough''-style words entering the vocabulary of the various languages at an early stage.

[[fi:borough]]