:''See also [[Bosh]].''
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*IPA: b&#594;&#643;
===Etymology 1===
From {{Turk.}} [[boş]] ''empty'', ''unoccupied''. Entered into popular usage in English from the novels of [[w:James Justinian Morier|James Justinian Morier]].
====Noun====
'''bosh''' (''uncountable'')
#[[nonsense]]
#* "That's '''bosh''', I don't believe you."

====Interjection====
'''bosh'''
#an expression of [[disbelief]] or [[annoyance]]
===Etymology 2===
From {{G.}} 
====Noun====
'''bosh''' (''plural'' [[boshes]])
#the lower part of a blast furnace, between the hearth and the stack
===Etymology 3===
<!-- This is a catch-all for the meanings that aren't known to be covered by the preceding etymologies. -->
Unknown.
====Noun====
'''bosh'''
#(''United Kingdom English, particularly Norfolk, slang, archaic'') a figure
#:''to cut a bosh'' &mdash; "to make a figure"
====Interjection====
'''bosh'''
#(''United Kingdom English'') an expression of speedy and satisfactory completion of a simple or straightforward task
#:'''quotations'''
#:*2001:"It's a ~3 foot double lead with two 5-pin DIN plugs on one end and a big gameport-sized-n-shaped plug on the other. One end into the gameport, t'other plugs into the back of your keyboard. '''Bosh''', job done." &mdash; [http://groups-beta.google.com/group/rec.games.computer.ultima.dragons/msg/13a171069f46102b]
#:*2001:"My father registered with these people a few months ago, and all his calls dried up.  He was also of the opinion that he shouldn't need to register not to be disturbed, and he's pretty ruthless on the 'phone when he wants to be . . . but eventually he grew tired of it . . . '''bosh'''.  Job done. " &mdash; [http://groups-beta.google.com/group/uk.local.lincolnshire/msg/ed2ede4dbc17f9fe]
#:*2003:"Wrong, get a LPG diesel.  More power than either, better economy than either, '''bosh''', job's done. " &mdash; [http://groups-beta.google.com/group/uk.rec.cars.misc/msg/dea3773fcd256ebd]
===Homonyms===
*[[Bosch]]

----

==Romanian==
Not quite likely, unless we look at it as a [[false cognate]]: 
''[[boş]]'', pl. boáşe = pair of [[sexual glands]] that produce [[sperm]] and [[masculine hormones]]; [[testes]]. ''[[Lat]]. [[bursa]].''

===Etymology===
French ''[[vide]]''
===Adjective===
'''vid'''

# [[empty]]

----

==Romany==
===Noun===
'''bosh'''
# [[fiddle]]
#:''Can you kil the bosh?'' &mdash; "Can you play the fiddle?"

[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:Romanian adjectives]]

[[tr:bosh]]