==English==

===Etymology===
Origin of the word is subject to much debate but most pundits credit it to, ex-player and now manager of [[Wikipedia:Charlton Athletic F.C.|Charlton Athletic F.C.]], [[Wikipedia:Iain Dowie|Iain Dowie]] in reference to his former team's, [[Wikipedia:Crystal Palace F.C.|Crystal Palace F.C.]], unexpected return to winning form during the [[Wikipedia:FA_Premier_League_2004-05|2004-05 English Premier League season]]. The word was popularised on topical football show [[Wikipedia:Soccer AM|Soccer AM]] on Sky Sports in the United Kingdom, where during the season 2004/05 it has become the object of a cult following. 

In October 2004 two national newspapers used the word. The first reference was in [[Wikipedia:The Scotsman|The Scotsman]] where it was used in a non-sports context and 10 days later in a quote in sports report in [[Wikipedia:The Guardian|The Guardian]] newspaper. Bouncebackability was also used on a BBC weather forecast "temperatures were showing good bouncebackability" and in an article discussing the IT contract market.

The word has now made it into the Collins dictionary - [[http://www.abc.net.au/newsradio/txt/s1412572.htm]]
Well actually, the Collins "Living Dictionary" [[http://www.collins.co.uk/wordexchange/Sections/DicSrchRsult.aspx?word=bouncebackability]] ''"The Living Dictionary contains words and definitions created by our users"''

===Noun===
{{en-noun-unc}}

#The ability of a person or team to [[bounce back]], that is, to return to good form after a period of not performing well.
#: ''By passing the test, after last years abysmal failure, he exhibited great '''bouncebackability'''.''
#The ability to recover from a past relationship.

===Examples of use===
'As a former Cabinet member of Major’s government, Michael Howard has an even harder job ahead of him. He has to show he has enough '''bouncebackability''' to get him into Number Ten.' (Scotsman, 8th October 2004)

'When Everton were knocked out of the League Cup last week, their manager Mo Marley said: "This will be a great test of the famous Everton '''bouncebackability'''."' (The Guardian, 18th October 2004)

===Alternative spellings===
'''bouncebackibility''' - a rare variation.

===Related terms===
*[[-ability]]
*[[bounce back]]

===References===
*http://www.macmillandictionary.com/new-words/041206-bouncebackability.htm
*http://football.guardian.co.uk/Columnists/Column/0,4284,1346053,00.html
*http://www.ir35calc.co.uk/contract_market_bounces_back.aspx

{{seeCites}}