==English==
===Etymology===
Probably from the French ''[[boule]]'', a ball.

===Noun===
'''bowl''' (''plural'' [[bowls]])

#A roughly [[hemispherical]] [[container]] used to hold, mix or present food, such as salad, fruit or soup, or other items.
#As much as is held by a bowl.
#:''You can't have any more soup - you've had three bowls already.''
#The ball rolled by players in the game of [[lawn bowls]].
#(''also'' '''pudding bowl''' ''or'' '''bowl cut''') A haircut in which straight hair is cut at an even height around the edges, forming a bowl shape.
# A round crater (or similar) in the ground.
# The action of bowling a ball.
#(''in plural'' '''bowls''' ''but used with a singular verb'') The game of [[lawn bowls]].

====Synonyms====
*(''as much as is held by a bowl''): [[bowlful]]
*(''haircut''): [[bowl cut]], [[pudding bowl]]
*(''crater''): [[crater]], [[hollow]]
*(''lawn bowls''): [[lawn bowls]]

====Translations====

'''container'''
{{top}}
*French [[bol]] ''m''
*Italian: [[scodella]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[ボール]] (bōru), [[どんぶり]] (donburi)
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[чаша]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[tazón]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''as much as is held by a bowl'''
''See'' '''[[bowlful]]'''

'''ball used in lawn bowls'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''haircut'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''crater'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''action of bowling a ball'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''lawn bowls'''
''See'' '''[[lawn bowls]]'''

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Finnish: (1): [[kulho]], [[kuppi]], [[malja]]
*Lithuanian: [[dubuo]] ''m'' (1); [[dubenėlis]] ''m'' (3)

===Transitive verb===
'''to bowl''' ('''[[bowls]]''', '''[[bowling]]''', '''[[bowled]]''')

#To roll or throw (a ball) in the correct manner in cricket and similar games and sports.
<!--disputed: #To serve (food).-->

====Translations====

'''roll or throw (a ball)'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
*Finnish: [[keilata]]

===Intransitve verb===
'''to bowl''' ('''[[bowls]]''', '''[[bowling]]''', '''[[bowled]]''')

#To throw the ball (in cricket and similar games and sports).

===Derived terms===
*[[bowl along]]
*[[bowl cut]], [[bowl-cut]]<!-- a hairstyle; may be hyphenated -->
*[[bowler]]
*[[bowling alley]]
*[[bowling ball]]
*[[bowl out]]
*[[bowl over]]
*[[dustbowl]]
*[[fruit bowl]]
*[[mixing bowl]]
*[[pudding bowl]]
*[[salad bowl]]
*[[soup bowl]]

[[io:Bowl]]
[[it:bowl]]