==English==

===Etymology===
From {{Gr.}} ''pyxis'' "container", related to German ''[[Büchse]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: bŏks
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /bɒks/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /bQks/

===Noun===
'''box''' (''plural:'' '''[[boxes]]''' except where noted)

# A rectangular [[container]] usually with a folding lid.
# Enough to fill a box or [[case]].
# A [[compartment]] to sit in at a [[theater]], [[courtroom]] or [[auditorium]].
# A small rectangular [[shelter]] like a booth.
# A [[blow]] with the fist.
# Any of various [[evergreen]] [[shrub|shrubs]] or [[tree|trees]] of the [[genus]] ''[[w:Buxus|Buxus]]''. Also called ''[[boxwood]]''.
# (''vulgar slang, AAVE'') [[vagina|Vagina.]]
# A [[computer]], e.g. [[UNIX]] or [[Linux]] box.  The whimsical plural ''[[boxen]]'' is occasionally used.
# {{Cricket}} A hard [[protector]] for the [[groin]] area, worn by a [[batsman]] or close [[fielder]] inside the [[underpants]].
# (''mechanical'') The cylindrical casing around a [[bearing]] or [[gland]].

====Quotations====
'''boxwood'''
*'''1885''': the application of woods other than '''box''' for purposes for which that wood is now used would tend to lessen the demand for '''box''' &mdash; ''Scientific American Supplement,'' No. 497, July 11, 1885

====Translations====
;a rectangular container (1)
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[kutija]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[boest]] {{f}} -où
*Catalan: [[capsa]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[doos]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[laatikko]]
*French: [[boîte]] {{f}}
*German: [[Kasten]] {{m}}, [[Kiste]] {{f}}
*[[Ido]]: [[buxo]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[doboz]]
*Slovene: [[škatla]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[caja]] {{f}}
*Tok Pisin: [[bokis]]
*Vietnamese: [[h&#7897;p]]
{{bottom}}

;enough to fill a box or case (2)
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[kutija]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[boestad]] {{f}} -où
*Catalan: [[capsa]] {{f}}
*French: [[boîte]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[caja]] {{f}}
*Tok Pisin: [[bokis]]
*Vietnamese: [[h&#7897;p]]
{{bottom}}

;a compartment (3)
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[kutija]] {{f}}
*Catalan: [[llotja]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[laatikko]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[loge]] {{f}} (theater)
*German: [[Loge]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[palco]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;a small rectangular shelter (4)
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[kutija]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[logell]] {{f}} -où
*Catalan: [[garita]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*French: [[cabane]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[garita]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;a blow with the fist (5)
{{top}}
*Breton: [[skouarnad]] {{f}} -où
*Catalan: [[cop de puny]] {{m}}
*French: [[coup de poing]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*[[w:Ido|Ido]]: [[boxar]]
*German: [[Boxhieb]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[puñetazo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

;boxwood (6)
{{top}}
*Tok Pisin: [[bokis]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a vagina (7)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[doos]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[doboz]] (1)
{{bottom}}

;a computer (8)
{{top}}
*[[w:Ido|Ido]]: [[ordinatro]]
{{mid}}
*Vietnamese: [[h&#7897;p]]
{{bottom}}

;a hard protector for the groin area (9)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;the cylindrical casing around a bearing or gland (10)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*Arabic: [[&#1589;&#1606;&#1583;&#1608;&#1602;]],[[&#1593;&#1604;&#1576;&#1577;]] (1) , [[&#1604;&#1603;&#1605;&#1577;]] (4) , [[&#1605;&#1602;&#1589;&#1608;&#1585;&#1577;]] (3)
*Catalan: [[caixa]]
*Chinese Characters: [[&#20990;]], [[&#20989;]], [[&#31665;]]
*Chinese: [[&#31665;&#23376;]]
*Esperanto: [[skatolo]]
*Estonian: [[karp]]
*French: [[caisse]] {{f}}
*Indonesian: [[kotak]]
*Interlingua: [[cassa]]
*Irish: [[bosca]]
*Japanese: [[&#31665;]] ([[&#12399;&#12371;]], hako)
*Polish: [[pud&#322;o]] {{n}}, [[pude&#322;ko]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[caixa]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[&#1103;&#1097;&#1080;&#1082;]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[&#1082;&#1091;&#1090;&#1080;&#1112;&#1072;]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[kutija]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[låda]]


[[Category:Trees]]

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|box||}}

# To place inside a box or encase.
# To [[strike]] with the fists.
# (''[[w:Jamaican English|Jamaican English]], [[w:AAVE|AAVE]]'') To [[punch]] someone.
#: ''Leave dis place before I '''box''' you.''
# To [[fight]] against someone in a [[boxing]] match.

====Translations====
*Arabic: [[تعليب]] (1), [[يلكم]] (2) , [[يلاكم]] (3)
*Catalan: [[encaixar]], [[encapsar]] (1), [[boxar]] (2, 3)
*Dutch: [[inpakken]], [[verpakken]] (1)
*French: (1) [[mettre en boîte]], [[emballer]], (2) [[boxer]], [[frapper]], (3) [[boxer]]
*German: (1) [[einpacken]], (1) [[verpacken]], (2, 3) [[boxen]]
*Hungarian: [[dobozol]] (1), [[üt]] (2), [[boxol]] (3)
*Interlingua: [[incassar]], [[boxar]]
*Spanish: [[encajar]] (1), [[boxear]] (2, 3)
*Tok Pisin: [[boksin]] (3)
*Irish Gaelic: [[bosca]]

===Related terms===
{{top}}
*[[bitty box]]
*[[boom box]]
*[[box elder]]
*[[box in]]
*[[box office]]
*[[box office bomb]]
*[[box out]]
*[[box up]]
*[[boxer]]
{{mid}}
*[[boxing]]
*[[Boxing Day]]
*[[in box]]
*[[out box]]
*[[out of the box]]
*[[shadow box]] <!-- noun -->
*[[shadowbox]] <!-- verb -->
*[[soapbox]]
*[[unbox]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[es:box]]
[[fr:box]]
[[io:Box]]
[[it:box]]
[[hu:box]]
[[ja:box]]
[[ro:Box]]
[[fi:box]]