{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es-both}}

# An [[alloy]] of [[copper]] and [[zinc]] used in many industrial and [[plumbing]] applications.
#{{music}} A class of [[wind instrument]]s, usually made of brass, that use [[vibration]]s of the [[player]]'s [[lip]]s to produce [[sound]].
# Spent shell casings; the part of the cartridge left over after bullets have been fired. (usually made of brass).
#The colour of brass.
#:<table><tr><td>brass colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#C9AE5D" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
#{{military}} (''used with a singular or plural noun'') High-ranking [[officers]].
#:''The brass are not going to like this.''
#:''The brass is not going to like this.''
#(''informal'') A brave or foolhardy attitude.
#: ''You've got a lot of brass telling me to do that!''
#(''slang; also'' '''[[brass in pocket]]''') [[Money]].
#(''slang; from'' '''[[brass nail]]'''; ''countable'') A [[prostitute]].

====Translations====

'''alloy of copper and zinc'''
{{top}}
*French: [[laiton]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''class of wind instruments'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''spent shell casings'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''colour of brass'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''high-ranking military officers'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''informal: a brave or foolhardy attitude'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slang: money'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slang: a prostitute'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Dutch: [[messing#Dutch|messing]] ''n'' (1), [[brons]] ''n'' (1), [[geelkoper]] ''n'' (1), [[brutaliteit]] ''f'' (5)
*French: cuivre (vert) ''m'' (1), [[cuivre]] ''m'' (2)
*Polish: [[mosiądz]] ''n'' (1), [[blacha]] ''f'', [[instrument]] [[blaszany]] ''m'' (2), [[łuska]] ''f'' (3)

===Adjective===
'''brass'''
# (''not comparable'') Made of brass.<!-- Actually attributive noun? -->
#of the colour of brass.
#(''slang'') Bad, annoying.

====Translations====

'''made of brass'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[messing]], [[bronzen]], [[geelkoperen]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[mosiężny]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''bad, annoying'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brass balls]]
*[[brass band]]
*[[brass hat]]
*[[brass in pocket]]
*[[brass instrument]]
*[[brass knuckles]]
*[[brass monkey]]
*[[brass nail]]
*[[brass neck]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brass rat]]
*[[brass ring]]
*[[brass section]]
*[[brass tacks]]
*[[brassbound]]
*[[brass-collar]]
*[[brassed off]]
*[[brass monkey]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brass-rubbing]]
*[[brassware]]
*[[brassy]]
*[[calamine brass]]
*[[high brass]]
*[[get down to brass tacks]]
*[[not have a brass farthing]]
*[[top brass]]
|}
|}

===Related terms===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[braze]]
*[[brazen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[brazier]]
*[[bronze]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[BSB]]
|}
|}

===See also===
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[althorn]]
*[[chalcography]]
*[[cornet]]
*[[euphonium]]
*[[flugelhorn]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[French horn]]
*[[mellophone]]
*[[Muntz metal]]
*[[saxhorn]]
*[[sousaphone]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=33%|
{|
*[[trombone]]
*[[trumpet]]
*[[tuba]]
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]
|}
|}

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Browns]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[ang:Brass]]
[[et:Brass]]
[[fr:brass]]
[[io:Brass]]
[[it:brass]]
[[pl:brass]]
[[fi:brass]]