==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|bro͞o}}, {{IPA|/bruː/}}, {{SAMPA|/bru:/}}
*: [[Rhymes:English:-uː|Rhymes: -uː]]

===Etymology===
From {{OE.}} [[brewen]] and {{AS.}} [[breowan]]/[[brewan]]; akin to Danish [[brouwen]], Old High German [[priuwan]], Middle High German [[briuwen]], br?wen, German [[brauen]], Icelandic [[brugga]], Swedish [[brygga]], Danish [[brygge]].  Perhaps from {{L.}} [[defrutum]] ''must boiled down'' and {{Gr.}} [[]] ''a kind of beer''. The original meaning seems to have been "to prepare by heat".

===Verb===
{{En-infl-reg-consonant|brew||}}

# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To [[boil]] or [[seethe]]; to [[cook]]. 
# {{transitive}} (''Commonwealth English'') To prepare a [[teapot]] of [[tea]].
# {{transitive}} (''Commonwealth English'') To put the [[kettle]] on for a cup of tea. 
# {{transitive}} To prepare, as beer or other liquor (or even ginger beer, shandy), from malt and hops, or from other materials, by steeping, boiling, and fermentation.
#* [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''The Two Gentlemen of Verona'', act III, scene I
#:: She brews good ale.
# {{transitive}} To prepare by steeping and mingling; to concoct.
#* [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
#:: Go, '''brew''' me a pottle of sack finely.
# {{transitive}} To foment or prepare, as by brewing; to contrive; to plot; to concoct; to hatch; as, to brew mischief.
#* [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
#:: Hence with thy brewed enchantments, foul deceiver!
# {{intransitive}} To attend to the business, or go through the processes, of brewing or making beer.
#* [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
#:: I wash, wring, '''brew''', bake, scour.
# {{intransitive}} To be in a state of preparation; to be mixing, forming, orgathering; as, a storm brews in the west.
#* [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]]
#:: There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest.

====Translations====
;to prepare liquor
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[brouwen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''brew''' (''plural'' [[brews]])
# The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed; a [[brewage]].
# (''Commonwealth English'') A cup of tea.
# (''Commonwealth English'') The act of making a cup of tea.
# {{UK}}{{colloquial}} A hill.

====Translations====
;something brewed
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[brouwsel]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
* [[brewage]]
* [[brewer]]
* [[brewhouse]]

----

==Polish==

===Noun===
'''brew''' {{f}}
# [[eyebrow]]
[[Category:Polish nouns]]

[[et:brew]]
[[pt:brew]]
[[zh:brew]]