{{cleanup-date|April 2006}}
{{wiktionarypar|bright-line rule}}
A '''bright-line rule''' is a clear-cut, easy to make decision. 

In policy debate, it is a topicality standard which argues that the definition is black and white, that one can easily tell whether or not a specific circumstance meets the definition.

In law a bright-line rule, or bright-line test, is a [[legal precedent]] or [[statute|statutory provision]] which is easy to apply and find how a judge will rule.  Bright-line rules are often contrasted with "squishy" [[balancing test]]s.  There is a sharp division over the validity and use of one in preference for the other.  Over the course of the last three decades in many bright-line rules previously established in U.S. jurisprudence have been replaced with balancing tests though some, such as [[List of Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States|Supreme Court Justice]] [[Antonin Scalia]], feel that bright-line rules are superior.

==Bright Line Rules==
*[[Miranda v. Arizona]]
*[[Goldberg v. Kelly]]
*[[Storer Doctrine]]
*[[SEC v. Chenery Corp.]], {{ussc|332|194|1947}}
*[[National Petroleum Refiners Assn. v. FTC]], 482 F.2d 672 (D.C. Cir. 1983), ''cert. denied'', 415 U.S. 951 (1974)
*[[Heckler v. Campbell]], {{ussc|461|458|1983}}
*[[Bowen v. Georgetown University Hospital]], {{ussc|488|204|1988}}
*[[Sameena, Inc. v. U.S. Air Force]], 147 F.3d 1148 9th Cir. (1998)

==External link==
*[http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/002367.html Language Log] Discussion of the phrase, with examples and history


{{Vocab-stub}}
{{law-stub}}