{{see|Broken}}

==English==

{{rank|follow|chance|happened|641|broken|trouble|die|arm}}

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: brōk'ən
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˈbrəʊkən/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /"br@Uk@n/
*{{audio|en-us-broken.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-əʊkən|-əʊkən]]

===Adjective===
'''broken''', 

# Past participle of ''[[break]]''
<!-- This one's a beast to define non-circularly! Feel free to improve. -->
#Bent to the point of coming apart, but not necessarily in separate pieces.
#: ''My arm is broken''
#Not working properly.
#: ''I think my shaver is broken.''
#Completely defeated and dispirited.
#: ''The bankruptcy and divorce, together with the death of his son, left him completely broken.''
# {{cattag2|Software|Colloquial}} Badly designed or implemented.
#: ''This is the most broken application I've seen in a long time.''

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[gebroken]]
*Finnish: [[rikottu]] (broken), [[rikottiin]] (was broken), [[rikkoutui]] (broke down)
*French: [[cassé]], [[brisé]], [[rompu]]
*German: [[gebrochen]] (1), [[kaputt]] (2)
*Indonesian: [[pecah]], [[patah]], [[retak]], [[rusak]]
*Irish: [[briste]]
*Italian: in [[avaria]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[割れた]] ([[われた]], wareta), [[壊れた]]([[こわれた]], kowareta)
*[[Latin]]: [[fractus]] ''m'', [[fracta]] ''f'', [[fractum]] ''n''
*Slovene: [[zlomljen]] ''m'', [[zlomljena]] ''f'', [[zlomljeno]] ''n'' (1, 2, 4)
*[[Spanish]]: [[roto]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[rota]] ''f'' (2), [[desfuncionado]] ''m'' (3), [[desfuncionada]] ''f'' (3)
*[[Telugu]]: [[ముక్కలైన]] (mukkalaina), [[బద్దలైన]] (baddalaina), [[వ్రక్కలైన]] (vrakkalaina), [[విరిగిన]] (virigina) (1)
*Turkish: [[kırık]], [[bölünmüş]]
*Vietnamese: bị [[vỡ]] (1, 2), bị [[bể]] (1)
*Chinese: 1.破裂的，打碎了的，弄破了的；(腿、臂等)已骨折的。 2.(地面等)起伏不平的；(天气)忽阴忽晴的。 3.灰了心的，已失望的，沮丧的，唉声叹气的；(身体)变衰弱的；【植物；植物学】(花)染上碎斑病的。 4.破了产的，倒闭的；(家庭等)遭破坏的；(诺言等)被违背的。 5.(语言等)拙劣的，不合标准[语法]的，乱七八糟的。 6.(线条)虚线的，断续的；零碎的，七零八落的，拆散了的；被打断的。 7.(马等)养驯了的，有训练的。 8.(方向)不断改变的。 9.〔口语〕降了级的。 10.【印刷】不足一令(500张)的。

====Related terms====
*[[break]]
*[[broken arrow]]
*[[broken bone]]
*[[broken by design]]
*[[broken English]]
*[[broken heart]]
*[[broken in]]
*[[broken promise]]
*[[heartbroken]]
*[[housebroken]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:broken]]
[[ar:broken]]
[[el:broken]]
[[fr:broken]]
[[it:broken]]
[[hu:broken]]
[[pt:broken]]
[[fi:broken]]
[[zh:broken]]