==English==
===Pronunciation===
*IPA: /bɹʌʃ/
#*{{audio|en-us-brush.ogg|Audio (US)}}

=== Noun ===
'''brush''' ([[brushes]])

#<!--DefN-A--> An [[implement]] with a handle, and a head with multiple more or less flexible [[bristle]]s, used for any of various purposes including [[clean]]ing, [[paint]]ing, and arranging [[hair]].
#<!--DefN-B--> A spring-loaded electrical contact that connects the [[rotor]] and [[armature]] of a motor or generator.
#<!--DefN-C--> The act of brushing something.
#: ''She gave her hair a quick brush.''
#<!--DefN-D--> ''(uncountable):'' Wild [[vegetation]], generally larger than grass but smaller than trees.
#<!--DefN-E--> A short and sometimes occasional encounter or experience.
#: ''He has had brushes with communism from time to time.''
#<!--DefN-F--> The tail of a fox.

====Translations====
<!--DefN-A-->'''an implement with handle'''
{{top}}
*[[Bavarian]]: [[Bembsl]] {{m}}
*{{br}}: [[broust]] {{m}} (''pl.'', broustoù)
*{{ca}}: [[raspall]], {{m}}
*{{da}}: [[børste]] {{c}}
*{{nl}}: [[borstel]] {{m}}; (''paint-'') [[verfborstel]]; (''hair-'') [[haarborstel]]; (''tooth-'') [[tandenborstel]]
*{{fr}}: [[brosse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*{{de}}: [[Bürste]] {{f}}; (''paint-'') [[Pinsel]] {{m}}
*{{id}}: [[sikat]]
*{{ja}}: [[はけ]] (hake), [[ブラシ]] (burashi)
*[[Novial]]: [[brose]]
*{{ru}}: [[щётка]] (ṧǒtka) {{f}}; (''paint-'') [[кисть]] (kistʹ) {{f}}
*{{es}}: [[cepillo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

<!--DefN-B-->'''electrical contact'''
{{top}}
*{{nl}}: [[borstel]] {{m}}
*{{de}}: [[Bürste]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*{{ja}}: [[ブラシ]] (burashi); [[刷子]](さっし, sasshi）
*{{ru}}: [[кисть]] (kistʹ) {{f}}
{{bottom}}

<!--DefN-C-->'''act of brushing'''
{{top}}
*{{ca}}: raspallar
*{{ja}}: [[ブラシがけ]](burashigake), [[磨き]] (みがき, migaki) 
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: [[broso]]
{{bottom}}

<!--DefN-D-->'''wild vegetation'''
{{top}}
*{{de}}: [[Busch]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*{{ru}}: [[куст]] (kust) {{m}}; [[кустарник]] (kustarnik) {{m}}
{{bottom}}

<!--DefN-E-->'''short experience'''
{{top}}
*{{fr}}: [[accrochage]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*{{it}}: [[incontro]] {{m}}; [[scontro]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

<!--DefN-F-->'''fox tail'''
{{top}}
*{{de}}: [[Fuchsschwanz]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*{{ja}}: [[尾]] (お, o)
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''brush'''

#<!--DefTV-A-->To clean with a brush.
#: ''Brush your teeth.''
#<!--DefTV-B-->To untangle or arrange with a brush.
#: ''Brush your hair.''
#<!--DefTV-C-->To apply with a brush.
#: ''Brush the paint onto the walls.''
#<!--DefTV-D-->To remove with a sweeping motion.
#: ''Brush the flour off your clothes.''
#<!--DefTV-E-->to touch with a sweeping motion
#: ''Her scarf brushed his skin.''

====Translations====
<!--DefTV-A-->'''to clean (with a brush)'''
{{top}}
*[[Bavarian]]: [[bembsln]]
*{{br}}: [[broustañ]]
*{{da}}: [[børste]]
*{{nl}}: [[borstelen]]; [[poetsen]]; [[vegen]]
*{{fr}}: [[brosser]]
{{mid}}
*{{de}}: [[putzen]]
*{{id}}: [[sikat|menyikat]]
*{{ja}}: [[磨く]] ([[みがく]], migaku) 
*{{es}}: [[cepillar]]
{{bottom}}

<!--DefTV-B-->'''to untangle/arrange'''
{{top}}
*{{nl}}: [[borstelen]]
*{{fr}}: ([[se brosser|se]]) [[se brosser|brosser]]
{{mid}}
*{{de}}: [[bürsten]]
*{{es}}: [[cepillar]]
{{bottom}}

<!--DefTV-C-->'''to apply'''
{{top}}
*{{nl}}: [[aanbrengen]]
*{{de}}: [[pinseln]]; [[auftragen]]
{{mid}}
*{{ja}}: [[塗る]](ぬる, nuru)
{{bottom}}

<!--DefTV-D-->'''to remove'''
{{top}}
*{{nl}}: [[afborstelen]]
*{{fr}}: [[brosser]]
{{mid}}
*{{de}}: [[wischen]]
{{bottom}}

<!--DefTV-E-->'''to touch'''
{{top}}
*{{nl}}: ([[van de tafel vegen|van de tafel]]) [[vegen]]
{{mid}}
*{{de}}: [[wegwischen]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top}}
*[[bottle brush]]
*[[bristle brush]]
*[[broad brush]]
*[[brush aside]]
*[[brush back]]
*[[brush by]]
*[[brush off]]
*[[brushfire]]
{{mid}}
*[[brush-off]]
*[[hairbrush]]
*[[paintbrush]]
*[[scrub brush]]
*[[shaving brush]]
*[[toothbrush]]
*[[underbrush]]
*[[wire brush]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[broom]]
*[[comb]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[el:Brush]]
[[fr:brush]]
[[io:Brush]]
[[it:brush]]
[[ru:Brush]]