==English==
===Noun===
'''buck'''
#A male [[deer]] or [[goat]].
#A male [[rabbit]] or [[hare]].
#A male of other species, such as the [[ferret]].
#(''US'') An uncastrated sheep, a [[ram]].
#(''US colloquial'') A [[dollar]].
#A [[young buck]]: an [[adventurous]] or [[high-spirited]] young man.
#(''UK, obsolete'') By extension of (6), a [[fop]] or [[dandy]].
# A piece put in front of the dealer in the pocker card game. The buck stops with smb - smb assumes all the responsibility.
# [[blame|Blame]]; [[responsibility]]; [[scapegoat]]; [[finger-pointing]].
#:''The '''buck''' stops here.''  -U.S. President Harry S. Truman

====Synonyms====
*(1): (''goat'') [[billy-goat]], [[buck-goat]], [[he-goat]]
*(3): (''ferret'') [[hob]], [[hob-ferret]]
*(4): [[ram]], [[tup]]
*(5): [[greenback]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bok]] (1, )
*German: [[Bock]] ''m'' (1, 2 ''[domestic rabbit]'', 4);  [[Rammler]] (2 ''wild''); [[Rüde]] (3)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====See also====
*(1): [[nanny]], [[nanny-goat]], [[she-goat]]
*(1, 2): [[doe]]
*(3): [[gill]], [[jill]]
*(4): [[ewe]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''to buck'''
#Of a [[horse]]: to rise sharply up on its [[hind]] legs.
#Of a [[horse]]: to leap upward arching its back.
#: 1848: ''At the same time we got speared, the horses got speared too, and jumped and bucked all about'' &mdash; Statement by Jackey Jackey (an Aborigine) published in William Carron ''Narrative of an Expedition Undertaken Under the Direction of the Late Mr. Assistant Surveyor E. B. Kennedy'' ([http://gutenberg.net.au/plusfifty.html#carron at Project Gutenberg Australia])
#By extension of (1), to move in any sharp or jerking manner.
#By extension of (1), to resist obstinately.

===Transitive verb===
'''to buck for'''
#By extension of ''buck'', verb sense (1), to [[strive]] for persistently.

===Related terms===
*[[buckskin]] (''n.'' 1)
*[[pass the buck]] (''n.'', etymology disputed)
*[[the buck stops here]]
*[[bucking bronco]] (''v.'' 1)
*[[buck the trend]] (''v.'' 2)
*[[buck up]]
*[[sawbuck]]

[[ang:buck]]
[[fr:buck]]
[[zh:buck]]