The term '''Buffoon''' is a somewhat derogatory yet amusing term for a [[humour]]ous character who provides his amusement principally through [[stupidity]] rather than [[talent]]. The term [[clown]] is sometimes incorrectly used, although this more usually refers to professional entertainers who provide that sort of act for a living. A Buffoon is, " A ridiculous but nevertheless amusing person".

The term is often used to updraid naughty school children, e.g. "Stop that Tisshaw - you Buffoon"

A person can become a Buffoon either through natural disorganisation and/or clumsiness, or by attempting to gain [[attention]] through [[humour]] but failing to pull it off. An individual may also choose to become a Buffoon in order to gain a unique place in a [[social group]], although this is generally a last resort.

University Degrees in Buffoonery were popular throughout the 19th Century but these fell in to disfavour in the early 20th Century; they are, however, making a comeback at certain institutions.

There is this girl names Leah rutledge who lives in PA. please write to her. She trying to act like 50 thousand other people and please tell her to just be her self. Also tell her that if she is going to have a boyfriend then she should not be ashamed of him and tell people they are going out when she is asked. Her e-mail is rutledgeleah@hotmail.com and her my space is  http://www.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=user.viewProfile&friendID=13333493&Mytoken=20050515155138
She has cool friends but she just doesn't know how to be herself. She also loves to act like a buffoon.
==See also==
*[[Pretending to be stupid]]
*[[Histrionic personality disorder]]

[[Category:Comedy]]

[[fr:Bouffon]]