{{see|Bug}}
{{cleanup}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Pronunciation===
*bŭg, {{IPAchar|/bʌɡ/}}, /<tt>bVg</tt>/
*:{{IPAchar|[[Rhymes:English:-ʌɡ|Rhymes: -ʌɡ]]}}

===Noun===
#An [[insect]] of the [[order]] [[Hemiptera]] (the "true bugs"). Most feed on plant juices.
#A [[colloquial]] name for any [[insect]]. (''These flies are a bother. I’ll get some '''bug''' spray and kill them.'')
#Various species of marine [[crustacean]]s.
#A [[problem]] that needs [[fixing]]. (''The program has a '''bug''' in it.'')
#An contagious [[illness]]. (''He’s got the flu '''bug'''.'')
#An [[enthusiasm]] for something. (''I think he’s a gold '''bug''', he has over 10,000 ounces in storage.'')
#An [[electronic]] listening [[device]]. (''We installed a '''bug''' in her telephone.'')
#A small or invisible [[image]] on a [[World Wide Web]] page, used to track persons who viewed it.  (''He suspected the image was a web '''bug''' used for detrmining who was visiting the site.'')
#A small, usually [[transparent]] or [[translucent]] [[image]] placed in a corner of a [[television]] program to indicate what [[network]] or cable channel is televising it. (''He did not like the network '''bug''' that appeared [[onscreen]].'')
# Manually positioned marker in [[flight instruments]]
# A card cheat's bug is a [[holdout]] device
# [[Obsession]] ("to catch the skiing bug")
# A semi-automated [[telegraph key]]

====Derived terms====
{{top}}
*[[Balmain bug]]
*[[bedbug]]
*[[mealybug]]
*[[Morton Bay bug]]
{{mid}}
*[[shield bug]]
*[[travel bug]]
*[[true bug]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations====
*[[Bosnian]]: [[insekt]] ''m'' (1), [[buba]] ''f'' (2), [[bakcil]] ''m'' (4)
*Catalan: [1] [[xinxa]] ''f'' [[:ca:xinxa|(ca)]]
*CJK Characters: [[虱]]; [[虫]]
*Chinese: [[臭蟲]], [[臭虫]] (chòu chóng)
*Dutch: [[insect]] ''n'' (2)
*Finnish: [[lutikka]] (1), [[ötökkä]] (2), [[bugi]] (3), [[pöpö]] (4), [[kärpänen]] (5), [[salakuuntelulaite|(sala)kuuntelulaite]] (6)
*French: [[bogue]] ''m''
*German: [[Wanze]] ''f'' (1), [[Ungeziefer]] ''n'' (2) 
*Greek: [[ζωύφιο]] (zoýfio) ''n''
*Italian: [[insetto]] ''m''
*Japanese: [[虫]] (mushí)
*Korean: [[벌레]] (boelle)
*Norwegian: [[insekt]] ''n'' (2), [[feil]] ''m'' (3), [[bakterie]] ''m'' (4)
*Polish: [[robak]], [[robal]] ''m'' (1 colloq), [[owad]] ''m'' (1), [[byk]] ''m'' (2), [[pluskwa]] ''f'' (5)
*Portuguese: [[inseto]] ''m'' (2), [[erro]] ''m'', [[falha]] ''f'', [[problema]] ''m'' (3), [[grampo]] ''m'' (6)
*Russian: [[клоп]] (klop) ''m'' (1), [[насекомое]] (nasekómoje) ''n'' (2)
*Slovak: [[inzekt]], [[chrobák]] ''m''
*Slovenian: [[stenica]] ''f'' (1,3), [[žužek]] ''m'' (2)
*Spanish: [1] [[chinche]] ''f'' [[:es:chinche|(es)]] 
*Turkish: [[böcek]] (2)

===Verb===
#To [[annoy]]. (''Don’t '''bug''' me, I’m busy!'')
#To [[install]] an electronic [[listening]] device. (''We need to know what’s going on. We’ll '''bug''' the place.'')

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[häiritä]] (1), [[ärsyttää]] (1), [[asentaa]] [[salakuuntelulaite]] (2)
*French: [[ennerver]] (1), enquinquer (1)
*German: [[nerven]] (1), [[verwanzen]] (2)
*Polish: [[wkurzać]] (1) ''colloq and usually impolite'', [[zakładać]] [[pluskwę]] (2)
*Slovenian: [[živcirati]] (1 colloq), [[namestiti prisluškovalno napravo]] (2)
*Turkçe: [[kızdırmak]]

===Further reading===
:[[w:Hemiptera|Wikipedia article on true bugs]]
:[[w:computer bug|Wikipedia article on computer bugs]]


----
==Danish==
===Noun===
'''bug''' ''c''

# [[stomach]]
# [[abdomen]]

[[Category:Insects]]

[[es:bug]]
[[fr:bug]]
[[io:bug]]
[[pl:bug]]
[[ru:bug]]
[[fi:bug]]
[[ta:bug]]
[[vi:bug]]
[[zh:bug]]