==English==

===Etymology===
The English longbow yeomen were directed to practice frequently, and it has been stated that there was often a practice held immediately after church services in small hamlets, the only time during the week when many of the archers would gather. A common target was the white skull of a bull, and the greatest skill could be illustrated by getting a "bulls eye".  

Another common shooting term derives from this activity, when the archer is far from the target, the arrow must be pointed high, due to the arched trajectory of an arrow.  When the archer is very close to the target, then he may point directly, without aiming above the white bull's skull, hence "pointing at the white", or "Point Blanc" as it was stated in those times. The term is now an established military term, "Point Blank" range, or the distance at which a firearm can be directly aimed at the target without consideration of the arched trajectory.  Modern firearms often have a "Point Blank" range of a few hundred yards.
.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#The centre of a [[target]]
#A [[peppermint]] flavoured [[sweet]] (UK) or [[candy]] (US), with stripes on it.
#(obsolete) Thick glass set into the side of a ship to let in light.
#A shot which hits the centre of a target.

====Translations====
;The centre of a target (1)
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[kol]]
*Finnish: [[napakymppi]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A peppermint flavoured sweet (2)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Thick glass set into the side of a ship to let in light (3)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A shot which hits the centre of a target (5)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napakymppi]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Interjection===
#A cry when someone hits the '''bullseye''' of a target.
#By extension, a response when someone makes an [[accurate]] statement.
#"Did John steal the petty-cash?"  "'''Bullseye'''"

====Translations====
;A cry (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napakymppi]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;By extension, a response when someone makes an accurate statement (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[napakymppi]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
bullseye lantern.

====See also====
[[bull's eye]]

[[ru:bullseye]]