{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
'''[[bull]]'''+'''[[shit]]''', referring to the excrement of adult male cattle.

===Noun===
'''bullshit''', uncountable

While the term literally refers to cattle excrement, it is virtually never used to actually refer to cattle excrement directly, instead the word [[manure]] is almost exclusively used for that purpose.

# {{vulgarslang}} Blatantly false statements, generally made with intent to deceive.
#: ''That's bullshit!  I called your office and they said you never came in!''
# {{vulgarslang}} A [[card game]] in which the object is to bluff about cards laid down and to determine when one's opponents are bluffing.
#: ''Anyone want to play a few hands of bullshit?''
# {{vulgarslang}} An object of frustration and/or disgust.
#: ''World 2-3 of Super Mario Bros. is bullshit!''

====See also====
*[[horseshit]]
*[[WikiSaurus:nonsense]]

====Euphemisms====
*[[BS]]
*[[bull]]
*[[bull puckey]]
*[[bushwah]]
*[[cheat]] (''card game'')
*[[I doubt it]] (''card game'')

====Translations====
'''deceitful statements, etc'''

{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Dutch: [[onzin]], bullshit
*Finnish: [[hevonpaska]]<!--belongs at Finnish entry (literally "horse shit")-->
*French: [[conneries]] ''f plural''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Italian: [[coglionate]] ''f plural''
*Spanish: [[tontería]], [[pendejada]], [[idiotez]], [[huevada]], [[mierda]], [[caca]]
*Swedish: [[skitsnack]]
|}
|}

'''card game'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right colulmn-->
*Swedish: [[bluffstopp]]
|}
|}

===Verb===
<!-- A good example of an irregular verb becoming regular in a compound.  The canonical example is ''flied out'' -->
'''bullshit''', past tenses '''bullshitted''' (possibly '''bullshit''', very rarely '''bullshat''')

# {{vulgarslang}} To tell lies, exaggerate or say nonsensical things.
#: ''I think you're bullshitting.  Let's just call your office and see if you even came in.''
#: ''You're bullshitting me.  I called your office and you never even came in.''

====Translations====
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--left column-->
*Finnish: [[puhua paskaa]]
*French: [[dire]] des [[conneries]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--right column-->
*Italian: [[dire]] [[coglionate]]
*Spanish: [[huevear]], decir [[tontería]]s
*Swedish: [[snacka skit]]
|}
|}

===Interjection===
'''bullshit!'''

#{{vulgarslang}} An expression of disbelief at what one has just heard.

====Translations====
'''bullshit!'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[onzin]]
*Finnish: [[paskan marjat]]!
{{mid}}
*Spanish: ¡tonterías!, ¡pendejadas!, ¡huevadas!
*Swedish: [[skit]]
{{bottom}}

[[ru:Bullshit]]