{{rfc}}


'''Burdak''' is [[surname]] of [[Jat]] community found in northwest [[Rajasthan]]. The surname Burdak, in [[India]], is based on [[gotra]] Burdak. The exact origin of Burdak surname is not known.

[[Jat]] community had adopted [[Buddhism]] during the [[Mauryan empire]] ([[321]]-[[184]] BC), whose most renowned emperor, [[Ashoka]], Converted to [[Buddhism]] in [[261 BC]]. [[Mauryans]] were [[Jats]].

The fall of the [[Gupta Empire]], which held dominance in northern [[India]] for nearly 300 years until the early 5th Century, was followed by a period of instability as various local chieftains sought to gain supremacy. Power rose and fell in northern India.
The ancestry of [[kshatriyas]] can be divided into two main branches: the [[Suryavansa]], or Race of the Sun (Solar Race), which claims direct descent from [[Rama]]; and the Induvansa, or Race of the Moon (Lunar race), which claims descent from [[Krishna]], Later  in the 6th and 7th centuries a third branch was added, the [[Agnikula]], or 'Fire Born'. These people claim they were manifested from the flames of a sacrificial fire on [[Mt.Abu]] in [[Rajasthan]].
[[Category: Social groups in Rajasthan]]
The agnikul clans of [[Rajputs]] are mentioned by Chand Bardai, the court poet of Prithviraj Chauhan, in his book Prithviraj Raso. According to him, when [[Parshurama]] had destroyed the [[Kshatriyas]] and there was no one left to protect the [[Brahmins]], they assembled and performed a [[yajna]] on [[Mount Abu]].
They kindled the sacred fire and prayed to God to produce a brave class to protect them. In response to their prayers, four great heroes sprang from this sacred fire. These founded the four great [[Rajput]] families — [[Parmaras]], [[Pratiharas]], [[Chalukyas]] and [[Chauhans]].
Burdak [[gotra]] [[Jats]] were included in [[Chauhans]].
Chauhans of the Agnikula Race emerged in the 12th century and were renowned for their valour. Their territories included the Sapadalksha kingdom, which encompassed a vast area including present- day [[Jaipur]], [[Ranthambhore]], part of [[Mewar]], the western portion of [[Bundi]] district, [[Ajmer]] Kishangarh and even, at one time, [[Delhi]]. Branches of the [[Chauhans]] also ruled territories know as [[Ananta]] (in present-day [[Shekhawati]]) and [[Saptasatabhumi]].

With the Defeat of [[Prithiviraj Chouhan]] in the 2nd [[Battle of Tarain]] 1192 C.E. and establishment of [[Muslim]] rule in North [[India]] in the form of the [[SLAVE DYNASTY]], the first of the [[Delhi Sultanates]], [[Jats]] moved to the country-side and started tilling the land.  Burdaks moved out from [[Delhi]] with 50 horses. They founded village Sarnau near Jeenmata in [[Sikar]] [[Rajasthan]]. In village Sarnau there was a war between Burdaks and Dhakas. Burdaks defeated Dhakas. But later on with the help of Badsah Dhakas defeated and killed all Burdaks in Sarnau.One Kharra [[gotra]] woman who was married in Burdaks was escaped and she went to her pihar at Gothara village. She was pregnant at that time. She gave birth to a child in nanihal at Gothara village. Burdaks in [[Rajasthan]] are descendant of this child.