==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[bush kanaka]]
*[[bush-Kanaka]]
===Etymology===
From Tok Pisin.
===Noun===
'''bus kanaka'''

# (''Papua New Guinea'') An [[uncivilised]] person; a person who follows a [[traditional]] rather than [[modern]] lifestyle.
===Quotations===
*'''1965,''' ''The Papua-New Guinea Elections 1964''
*:... for some more sophisticated coastal people there was merely the shame at being led by a '''''bush kanaka''''', ...
*'''1999,''' Eric Hirsh, ''Colonial Units and Ritual Units: Historical Transformations of Persons and Horizons in Highland Papua'' in ''Comparative Studies in Society and History'', Vol. 41, No. 4
*:Fuyuge men recount with humor their initial encounters with life in Port Moresby during the 1950s. They speak of travelling to the coast in their bark-cloths and realising upon their arrival that they were inappropriately dressed: “We immediately felt '''''bus kanaka''''' [wild, uncivilized].”
*'''2002,''' Terry O'Farrell, ''Behind Enemy Lines''
*:Sam’s blues and boots disappeared into his small backpack, his beret was pushed back onto the head at a very jaunty angle and the .303 was slung carelessly over the shoulder. A torn pair of shorts completed the ensemble. In the twinkling of an eye, the immaculate policeman was transformed into a ragged '''bush kanaka'''...
*'''2004,''' K. O. L. Burridge, ''Mambu: A Melanesian Millennium''
*:Manam islanders knew Mambu: but they could not admit to being led or influenced by a mere '''bush-Kanaka'''.
*'''2005,''' Nancy Sullivan,''My Weblog: Stories about living in Papua New Guinea,'' November 5 [http://nancysullivan.typepad.com/my_weblog/2005/11/11_win_nasin.html]
*:''Do you see development here? Are you living like white men? No!'' We’re still living like '''''bus kanaka'''''.
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:Tok Pisin derivations]]
[[Category:People]]
----

==Tok Pisin==
===Noun===
'''[[bus#Tok_Pisin|bus]] [[kanaka#Tok_Pisin|kanaka]]'''

# An [[uncivilised]] person; a person who follows a [[traditional]] rather than [[modern]] lifestyle.
[[Category:Tok Pisin nouns]]
[[Category:tpi:People]]