''See also'' '''[[Bush]]'''
{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /bʊʃ/
*{{audio|en-us-bush.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʊʃ|-ʊʃ]]

===Etymology 1===
From {{OE.}} [[bysc]] ''woody plant'' via {{ME.}} [[bushe]] ''woody plant'', possibly conflated with cognates such as {{Dan.}} [[busk]],  {{OF.}} [[busche]] ''firewood'', and Medieval [[Anglo-Latin]] [[bosca]] ''firewood'' (from {{ML.}} [[busca]], in turn a loan from a West Germanic language)

====Noun====
'''bush''', pl. ''[[bushes]]'' 
# A [[horticultural]] rather than strictly [[botanical]] category of [[woody]] [[plant]] that is distinguished from a tree by its multiple stems and lower height; usually less than 6m tall.

=====Synonyms=====
* [[shrub]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Chinese: 
*:Simplified Chinese: [[灌木]]
*:Traditional Chinese: [[灌木]]
*:Pinyin: guanmu
*Danish: [[busk#Danish|busk]]
*Dutch: [[struik]], [[heester]]
*Finnish: [[pensas]], [[puska]]
*French: [[buisson]] {{m}}, [[arbrisseau]] {{m}}
*German: [[Strauch]] {{m}}, [[Busch]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[arbusto#Italian|arbusto]] {{m}}, [[cespuglio]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: 
*:Kanji: [[低木]], [[灌木]]; [[茂み]]
*:Hiragana: ていぼく, かんぼく; しげみ
*:Romaji: teiboku, kanboku; shigemi
*Korean:
*:Hangul: [[수풀]]
*:Romaja: supur
*Polish: [[krzak]] {{m}}, [[krzew]] {{m}}
*Russian: 
*:Cyrillic: [[кустик]] {{m}}
*:Roman: kustik
*Slovak: [[ker]] {{m}}, [[krík]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[grm]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[arbusto#Spanish|arbusto]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[buske]] {{c}}
*Telugu: [[పొద]] (poda)
{{bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
*[[bushy]]
*[[beat about the bush]], [[beat around the bush]]

===Etymology 2===
From the sign of a bush usually employed to indicate such places

====Noun====
'''bush''', pl. ''[[bushes]]''
# {{archaic}}: A [[tavern]] or wine merchant.

===Etymology 3===
From {{D.}} [[bosch]], first appearing in the Dutch colonies as the word for an uncleared district of a colony, and thence in British colonies as [[bush]].

====Noun====
'''bush''' (''uncountable'')
# {Australia} The [[countryside]] area of [[Australia]] that is neither [[arid]] nor [[remote]] enough to [[constitute]] the [[outback]], and that can include areas of natural flora even within conurbations
# {New Zealand} An area of [[New Zealand]] covered in forest, especially native forest.
#{{baseball}} Amateurish behavior, short for "[[bush league]] behavior"
#: ''The way that pitcher showed up the batter after the strikeout was '''bush'''.''

=====Derived terms=====
*[[bushbaby]]
*[[bushmeat]]
*[[bushwhacker]]
*[[bush tucker]]
*[[bush week]]

=====Related terms=====
*[[bushman]] (not derived from [[bush]] but in fact separately derived from Dutch)

=====See also=====
*[[Alaskan bush]]

====Translations====
*Swedish: [[bushen]] ''def. singular''

====Adjective====
1. The Australian use of the noun "bush", used attributively.
::The bush vote; bush [[tucker]]; bush aristocracy

===Etymology 4===
Extended from ''bush'' (Etymology 1); cf. [[bushy]].  First occurrence is in 1745.

====Noun====
'''bush''', pl. ''[[bushes]]''
# (''slang'') The [[pubic hair]] of a woman.

=====Translations=====

'''pubic hair of a woman'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[buske]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''vulva of a woman'''
{{top}}
*French: [[chatte]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[figa]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 5===
{{etystub}}

====Noun====
'''bush''', pl. ''[[bushes]]'' 
# A thick [[washer]] or hollow cylinder of metal (also [[bushing]]).
# A mechanical attachment, usually a metallic socket with a screw thread, such as the mechanism by which a camera is attached to a tripod.

[[Category:English nouns]]
==Albanian==
===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /bʊʃ/
===Noun===
'''bush''' ''m'' (''pl.'', '''bushe''')
# (''arb.'') [[box]]([[boxwood|wood]]).

[[io:bush]]
[[it:bush]]
[[hu:bush]]
[[fi:bush]]
[[ta:bush]]
[[Category:Australian English]]