==English==
===Noun===
{{en-noun|butcheries}}
# The cruel, ruthless killings of humans, as at a [[slaughterhouse]].
#:'''1593''' ''The tyrannous and bloody act is done,— 
#:''The most arch deed of piteous massacre 
#:''That ever yet this land was guilty of. 
#:''Dighton and Forrest, who I did suborn 
#:''To do this piece of ruthless '''butchery'''
#::— Shakespeare, ''Richard III'', [[s:The_Tragedy_of_Richard_the_Third#SCENE_III._London.__Another_Room_in_the_Palace.|Act 4, Scene 3]].
# {{rare}} An [[abbatoir]], a slaughterhouse.
#:'''1899''' ''On the third Friday Jimmie was dropped at the door of the school from the doctor's buggy. The other children, notably those who had already passed over the mountain of distress, looked at him with glee, seeing in him another lamb brought to '''butchery'''.'' — Stephen Crane, ''[[s:Making an Orator|Making an Orator]]''.
#:'''1901''' ''There was good grass on the selection all the year. I’d picked up a small lot—about twenty head—of half-starved steers for next to nothing, and turned them on the run; they came on wonderfully, and my brother-in-law (Mary’s sister’s husband), who was running a '''butchery''' at Gulgong, gave me a good price for them.'' — Henry Lawson, ''[[s:A Double Buggy at Lahey Creek|A Double Buggy at Lahey Creek]]''.
# The [[butcher]]ing of meat.
#:''This '''butchery''' begins in the first Japanese month. For this purpose they put the animal's head between two long poles, which are squeezed together by fifty or sixty people, both men and women. When the bear is dead they eat his flesh, keep the liver as a medicine'' — James Frazer, ''The Golden Bough'', [[s:The Golden Bough/Killing the Divine Animal|Chapter 52]].
# A disastrous effort, an atrocious failure.
#:''This week’s impossible-to-pronounce word: Catania. Granted, it’s a little trickier than Palermo, but there was no excusing the verbal '''butchery''' that ensued.'' —[http://moms.vocis.com/archives/2006/04/ blog.]
#{{slang}} The stereotypal behaviors and accouterments of being a [[butch]] lesbian.

[[ru:butchery]]