==English==
===Noun===
'''butt''' (''plural'' butts)

# A [[limit]]; a [[bound]]; a [[goal]]; the extreme bound; the [[end]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1604''': Here is my [[journey]]'s end, here is my [[butt]] And very [[sea-mark]] of my [[utmost]] [[sail]]. &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Othello'', Act V, Scene II, line 267.
# The [[large]]r or [[thick]]er [[end]] of anything; the [[blunt]] end, in [[distinction]] from the [[sharp]] end; as, the butt of a [[rifle]]. Formerly also spelled [[but]].
# A [[mark]] to be [[shot]] at; a [[target]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1598''': To which is [[fix]]ed, as an [[aim]] or [[butt]]... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''Henry V'', Act I, Scene II, line 186.
#:*'''1786''': The [[inhabitant]]s of all cities and [[town]]s were ordered to make [[butt]]s, and to keep them in repair, under a penalty of twenty [[shilling]]s per month, and to [[exercise]] themselves in [[shoot]]ing at them on [[holiday]]s. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 37.
# A person at whom [[ridicule]], [[jest]], or [[contempt]] is [[direct]]ed; as, the butt of the [[company]].
# A [[push]], [[thrust]], or sudden [[blow]], given by the [[head]] of an [[animal]]; as, the butt of a ram.
# A thrust in fencing.
# A piece of land left un[[plow]]ed at the end of a [[field]].
# (''Mechanical'') A [[joint]] where the ends of two objects come [[squarely]] together without [[scarf]]ing or [[chamfer]]ing; -- also called butt joint.
# The end of a connecting [[rod]] or other like piece, to which the [[box]]ing is attached by the [[strap]], [[cotter]], and [[gib]].
# The portion of a half-[[coupling]] fastened to the end of a [[hose]].
# (''Shipbuilding'') The joint where two [[plank]]s in a [[strake]] meet.
# (''Carpentry'') A kind of [[hinge]] used in hanging [[door]]s, etc.; -- so named because [[fasten]]ed on the edge of the door, which butts against the casing, instead of on its [[face]], like the strap hinge; also called butt hinge.
# (''Leather Trade'') The thickest and [[stout]]est part of [[tan]]ned [[oxhide]]s, used for [[sole]]s of [[boot]]s, [[harness]], [[trunk]]s.
# The [[hut]] or [[shelter]] of the person who attends to the [[target]]s in [[rifle]] [[practice]].
# (''Slang'') The [[buttock]]s; as, get up off your butt and get to work; -- used as a [[euphemism]], less objectionable than [[ass]].
# (''English units'') [[Category:English_units]]An English [[measure]] of [[capacity]] for [[liquid]]s, containing 126 [[wine]] [[gallon]]s; [[equivalent]] to the [[pipe]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:* '''1882''': Again, by 28 Hen. VIII, cap. 14, it is re-enacted that the [[tun]] of wine should contain 252 gallons, a [[butt]] of [[Malmsey]] 126 gallons, a [[pipe]] 126 gallons, a [[tercian]] or [[puncheon]] 84 gallons, a [[hogshead]] 63 gallons, a [[tierce]] 41 gallons, a [[barrel]] 31.5 gallons, a [[rundlet]] 18.5 gallons. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', p. 205.
# A [[wooden]] [[cask]] for storing wine, usually containing 126 gallons.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:* '''1611''': ...I [[escape|escap'd]] upon a [[butt]] of [[sack]] which the [[sailor]]s [[heave|heav'd]] [[overboard|o'erboard]]... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''The Tempest'', Act II, Scene II, line 121.