==English==
===Noun===
'''[[butt]] [[monkey]]'''

# An annoying and irking person.
# An object of [[ridicule]].
#*'''2000''' September 26, Marti Noxon, ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer'', Season 5, Episode 79: “Buffy vs. Dracula”
#*:''Xander:'' I'm sick of being the guy who eats insects and gets the funny syphilis. [''...''] I'm finished being everybody's '''butt monkey'''.
#*'''2006''' February 6, "I don't think they should execute terrorists", ''First and Last and Always'' [http://firstlastalways.blogspot.com/2006/02/i-dont-think-they-should-execute.html]
#*:they can while away their time being Bubba's '''butt monkey''' for the next 50 years.
#*'''2006''' March 25, "Issue #16 Review. Not.", ''Legion Abstract'' [http://legionabstract.blogspot.com/2006/03/issue-16-review-not.html]
#*:I'm getting pretty tired of being the comic book industry's '''butt-monkey'''.
#*'''2006''' April 27, "Work worries and a quote", ''World's Easiest Quiz''[http://eryn-skynobi.livejournal.com/19497.html]
#*:But being at '''butt monkey''' status means that I don't have a voice to express my displeasure.
#*'''2006''' May 5, "In defence of the Beta Male", ''DAYS of the INSANE'' [http://etaknosnhoj.blogspot.com/2006/05/in-defence-of-beta-male.html]
#*:Con's about as far from the standard Alpha as he could get--he's the Unseelie [''sic.''] '''butt-monkey'''
#*'''2006''' May 14, "Karma gives me a handjob", ''Pissing and Moaning'' [http://youarestupid2.blogspot.com/2006/05/karma-gives-me-handjob.html]
#*:Don't do wrong to others and it should come back to you tenfold. OK, so there are several years that I was Karma's '''butt-monkey''' for not obeying that simple rule.

====Quotations====

#*'''1993''' May 18, Martin J<!--sic--> Hannigan, "I LIKE YOUR NEW ORGANIZATION BUNG BOY", <tt>talk.bizarre</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:I still prefer '''Butt Monkey''' User Group myself.
#*'''1993''' July 8-9, "Insecure faggots.": "Butt monkeys", <tt>alt.sex</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:"ad980": the autopsy has concluded that indeed, the monkey did have a banana shoved up his butt
#*:Kevin Walsh: All this talk about '''butt monkeys''' makes me wonder if you see yourself as the organ grinder.
#*:"ad980": Oddly enough, the '''butt monkey''' in question is you.
#*'''1994''', Mike Judge, ''Beavis and Butt-Head'' <!--episode?-->
#*:''Beavis:'' Butt-munch / Monkey Spank / Dillweed / Turd wipe / Dumbass / '''Butt Monkey'''
#*:''Butt-Head:'' Chode / Waste of Bum Wipe / Dillhole / Fartknocker / Dumb Beavis / Butt-Head, no wait
#*'''2000''' October 13, Edward Hancock II, ''Splintered Souls'', page 90, Xlibris Corporation
#*:You have my promise that everything in our power will be done to catch this psycho '''butt monkey''', but [''...''] I just don’t think you could distance yourself from this level of personal involvement.
#*'''2001''' March, "The Butt Monkey", ''Adopt-A-Pet of Victoria, Texas'' [http://www.adoptpet.org/_Misc/butt_monkey.htm]
#*:Uh-oh, '''Butt Monkey''' alert
#*'''2002''' May 9, "i [''sic.''] know theres no great plan here...", ''Meagan's Journal'' [http://dreamstarblue.livejournal.com/30128.html]
#*:eric decided to be a '''butt monkey''' and start shit about cory.
#*'''2006''' January 29, "Achtung! Where are your papers?", ''Picks Commentary'' [http://picksofday.blogspot.com/2006/01/achtung-where-are-your-papers.html]
#*:'''Butt Monkey''', you didn't tell congress [''sic.''] you were going to spy on everyone.
#*'''2006''' March 8, "Sorry", ''Sugardaddy'' [http://sugdaddy.blogspot.com/2006/03/sorry.html]
#*:Being a teller in a bank is not nuclear gynocology. [''sic.''] A striped '''butt monkey''' can do it.
#*'''2006''' April 19, 'And let the Church say, "AMEN!"', ''Defiance'' [http://laurielou2.blogspot.com/2006/04/and-let-church-say-amen.html]
#*:I was pontificating on the ecstasy of the prospect of not having to listen to the '''butt monkey''' fumble and stammer through another round of explanation for the unexplainable.
#*'''2006''' May 15, Fan-Bloody-Tastic, ''Insanity Reigns Supreme'' [http://rider.net.nz/modules/wordpress/?author=1]
#*: Some bloody '''butt-monkey''' rear-ends me.