==English==

===Etymology===
[[Onomatopoeic]]
[[Category:Onomatopoeia]]

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌz|-ʌz]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

#A continuous, humming noise, as of bees; a confused murmur, as of general conversation in low tones, or of a general expression of surprise or approbation.
#A whisper; a report spread secretly or cautiously.
#The audible friction of voice consonants.

====Translations====
'''humming noise'''
*Italian: [[brusio]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[ж-ж-ж]] (ž-ž-ž)

'''a report spread secretly or cautiously'''

'''audible friction of voice consonants'''

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|buz|z|}}

#To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; to speak with a low, humming voice.
#To sound forth by buzzing.
#To whisper; to communicate, as tales, in an under tone; to spread, as report, by whispers, or secretly.
#To talk to incessantly or confidentially in a low humming voice.
# (Aviation) To fly very low over an airport or other location.

====Translations====
'''to make a low, humming or sibilant sound'''
*Dutch: [[zoemen]]
*German: [[summen]], [[brummen]], [[surren]]
*Russian: [[жужжать]] (žužžát’)

'''to sound forth by buzzing'''

'''to communicate, as tales, in an under tone'''

'''to talk to incessantly or confidentially in a low humming voice'''

'''Aviation: To fly very low over an airport or other location'''

===Derived terms===
*[[buzzword]]

[[Category:Animal sounds]]

[[fr:buzz]]
[[gl:buzz]]
[[io:buzz]]
[[pt:buzz]]
[[fi:buzz]]
[[vi:buzz]]