==English==
===Etymology===
Colloquial French [[béguin#French|béguin]], which originally meant ‘bonnet’.  The verb s’[[embéguiner]] ‘to wear a bonnet’ came to mean ‘to have a crush on someone’.  The word itself came from [[béguine]] ‘beguine’ (lay nuns who typically wore such bonnets).

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: {{IPAchar|/begɛ̃/}}

===Noun===
'''béguin'''
# an [[infatuation]] or [[fancy]]
#:*'''1972''': ‘I see now.  And you have a '''béguin''' for her too?  It is no use, I warn you.’  (O'Brian, ''Post-Captain'')

[[fr:béguin]]
[[vi:béguin]]


I am not quite sure how to edit this properly, However I would like to edit this word entry, or more specifically add the other spelling of this word in the entry that is created.  In the infamous Cole Porter creation "Begin The Beguine" this (Beguine) is how the word is spelled.  I tried to look it up under that spelling for a creative venture I was on to make sure I was using this word properly and noticed that this spelling (Beguine) does not exist on this weblication (hahaha)

I hope my energy and excitment of this edit is not wasted, because I just started using this Wittionary/Wikipedia stuff and one of the first things I noticed about it was the fact that you or this entity of cumulative efforts from across the world was looking for a board to direct next steps.  I was elated and read on, realizing that one must make edits to and contribute to this (gonna use it again) weblication (it makes me laugh like a child when people say poonanny or weener!) sorry...   so here is my first edit and contribution. Cheers and Happy Thought! -Feel the warm embrace for you!
-Audra Angelique Gandy