==English==
===Noun===
'''pad''' (''plural'' '''pads''')

#A soft, or small, [[cushion]].
#A [[mass]] of anything [[soft]].
#[[Stuffing]].
#A kind of cushion for writing upon, or for [[blotting]], especially one formed of many flat [[sheets]] of [[writing paper]], or layers of [[blotting paper]]; a block of paper.
#A cushion used as a [[saddle]] without a tree or frame.
#A stuffed guard or protection, especially one worn on the legs of [[horse]]s to prevent [[bruising]].
#A cushion-like thickening of the skin one the under side of the [[toes]] of animals.
#A [[floating]] leaf of a [[water lily]] or similar plant.
#A soft bag or cushion to relieve pressure, support a part, etc.
#A piece of [[timber]] fixed on a [[beam]] to fit the curve of the [[deck]].
#A measure for [[fish]]; as, sixty [[mackerel]] go to a pad; a basket of soles.
#A [[footpath]]; a [[road]].
#An easy-paced [[horse]]; a [[padnag]].
#A robber that infests the road on foot; a [[highwayman]]; – usually called a footpad.
#The act of [[robbing]] on the [[highway]].
#(''slang'') A place of [[residence]].
#{{cricket}} a [[batsman]]'s [[leg]] pad that [[protect]]s it from [[damage]] when hit by the ball

====Translations====

'''small, soft cushion'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''mass of anything soft'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''stuffing'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''block of paper'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''cushion used as a saddle without a tree or frame'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''stuffed guard or protection, especially one worn on the legs of horses to prevent bruising'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''cushion-like thickening of the skin one the under side of the toes of animals'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''floating leaf of a water lily or similar plant'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''soft bag or cushion to relieve pressure, support a part, etc'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''piece of timber fixed on a beam to fit the curve of the deck'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''measure for fish'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''footpath, road'''
''See [[footpath]] and [[road]]''

'''padnag'''
''See [[padnag]]''

'''robber that infests the road on foot'''
''See [[footpad]]''

'''act of robbing on the highway'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''slang: place of residence'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''to pad''' (padding, padded)

#To stuff.
#To furnish with a pad or padding.
#To imbue uniformly with a mordant
#:''to pad cloth''
#{{cricket}} to [[deliberately]] [[play]] the ball with the leg pad instead of the [[bat]]

====Translations====

'''stuff'''
''See [[stuff]]''

'''furnish with a pad or padding'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''imbue uniformly with a mordant'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
'''to pad''' (padding, padded)

#To travel upon foot; to tread.
#To travel heavily or slowly.
#To rob on foot.
#To wear a path by walking.

====Synonyms====
*(''travel heavily or slowly''): [[lumber]], [[plod]], [[trudge]]

====Translations====

'''travel upon foot'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''travel heavily or slowly'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''rob on foot'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''wear a path by walking'''
{{top}}<!--languages from A to I go here-->
{{mid}}<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

[[it:pad]]
[[hu:pad]]
[[nl:pad]]