==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /peɪdʒ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /peIdZ/

===Noun===
'''page''' (''plural'' '''pages''')

#One side of a leaf of a book or manuscript.
#The type set up for printing a page.
#A serving boy; formerly, a youth attending a person of high degree, especially at courts, as a position of honor and education; now commonly, in England, a youth employed for doing errands, waiting on the door, and similar service in households; in the United States, a boy employed to wait upon the members of a legislative body.
#A boy child.
#A contrivance, as a band, pin, snap, or the like, to hold the skirt of a woman's dress from the ground.
#A track along which pallets carrying newly molded bricks are conveyed to the hack.
#Any one of several species of beautiful South American moths of the genus ''Urania''.
#(''figurative'') A record; a writing.
#:''the page of history''

====Synonyms====
*(''side of a leaf''): [[side]]
*(''serving boy''): [[page boy]]
*(''boy child''): [[boy]]
*(''record, writing''): [[account]], [[record]]

====Translations====

'''one side of a leaf of a book'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: [[صَفحة]] (sˁafħa)
*Cantonese: 頁 (yip6)
*Chinese: 页/頁 (yè)
*Czech: [[strana]] ''f'', [[stránka]] ''f''
*{{nl}} : [[pagina]] ''c'', [[bladzijde]] ''c''
*{{eo}}: paĝo
*{{fi}}: [[sivu]]
*French: page ''f''
*German: [[Seite]] ''f''
*Greek: σελίδα (selída)
*Gujarati: પૃષ્ઠ (pannā) ''n''
*Hebrew: [[אמות]] ''f''
*Hindi: पृष्ठ (parṣṭha) ''n''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{ga}}: [[leathanach]]
*[[Ido]]: [[pagino]], [[pajo]] (3)
*Indonesian: [[halaman]]
*Italian: [[pagina]] ''f''
*Japanese: 面 (めん/men)
*Malay: [[laman]]
*{{no}}: [[side]]
*Persian: [[صَفحِه]] (sæfhe)
*Polish: [[strona]] ''f'', [[stronica]] ''f''
*{{po}}: página
*{{ru}}: [[страница]] (stranica)
*Sanskrit: पृष्ठ (parṣṭha)
*Slovak: [[strana#Slovak|strana]] ''f'', [[stránka#Slovak|stránka]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[página]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[sida]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''type set up for printing a page'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Finnish]]: [[sivuttaa]], [[taittaa]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[strana#Slovak|strana]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''serving boy'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{nl}}: [[page]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[páža#Slovak|páža]] ''n'', [[pážatko#Slovak|pážatko]] ''n''
*Swedish: [[page#Swedish|page]]
|}
|}

'''boy child'''
''See [[boy]]''

'''contrivance to hold a skirt from the ground'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''track along which bricks are conveyed'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''moth'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''record'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[stránka#Slovak|stránka]] ''f''
|}
|}

===Transitive verb===
'''to page''' (paging, paged)

#To attend (someone) as a page.
#To mark or number the pages of, as a book or manuscript
#To furnish with folios.
#To call or summon (someone).
#To contact (someone) by means of a [[pager]].

'''attend as a page'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''mark the pages of'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''furnish with folios'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''call or summon'''
''See [[call]] and [[summon]]''

'''contact by means of a pager'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Related terms===
*[[page boy]]

----
==French==
===Noun===
'''page''' ''f''

#page (''of a book, etc'')

===Noun===
'''page''' ''m''

#page, [[page boy]]
-----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''page''' ''c'' (''plural'' [[pager]], ''def singular'' [[pagen]], ''def plural'' [[pagerna]])

#page, [[serving boy]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[de:Page]]
[[et:Page]]
[[es:page]]
[[fr:page]]
[[gu:Page]]
[[io:Page]]
[[it:page]]
[[pl:Page]]
[[fi:Page]]