==English==
===Etymology===
Shortened from '''[[Pakistani]]'''

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æki|-æki]]

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun|s}}

#(''derogatory, offensive and racist'') A [[Pakistani]], or, more generally, a person who is perceived to be a Pakistani; often applied to persons of any South Asian or [[Indian]] Subcontinent origin.
====Translations====
{{top}}
*Russian: [[пак]] (pak) {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Proper adjective===
{{en-adj-notcomp}}
# Short for [[Pakistani]]
# (''literally means in [[Urdu]]'') Pure, Cleanliness

('''In UK only''')
#(''derogatory, offensive and racist when spoken by non-Pakistanis'') [[Pakistani]], or perceived to be Pakistani.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Russian: [[паковский]] (pákovskij)
{{bottom}}

====Usage notes====
The word [[Pakistan]] was created in 1933 by [[Rahmat Ali Chaudhry]], a [[Cambridge]] law student, to refer to the independence movement that existed prior to the [[British]] decolonisation project of ex-London law students. It derives from the Urdu words for "pure country". However, the abbreviation '''Paki''' acquired offensive connotations in the 1960s when used by British tabloids to refer to decolonisational subjects in a derogotary and racist manner. In modern British usage "Paki" is typically used in a derogatory way as a label for all South Asians, including Indians and Bangladeshis. In recent times there has been a trend by second- and third-generation British Pakistanis to reclaim the word, such as in the name of the clothing company [[PAK1]] or the independent refugee television news agency [http://paki.tv paki.tv]. 

The racist connotations may be confined only to the UK. In Australia, the Pakistani cricket team are commonly referred to as the [[Pakis]], just as the West Indians are known as the Windies.

[[Category:English proper nouns]]
[[Category:English proper adjectives]]
[[Category:Ethnic slurs]]

[[sr:Paki]]