{{see|Pan|PAN|pan-|Pan-|pán}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/pæn/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æn|-æn]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[panne]]'', from West Germanic.  Cognate with Dutch ''[[#Dutch|pan]]'', German ''[[Pfanne]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A wide, flat [[receptacle]] used around the house, especially for cooking.
# The contents of such a dish.
# Strong [[criticism]].
# A loaf of bread.
# The base part of a [[toilet]], being the bowl etc down which the waste goes. [http://www.caroma.com.au/products/index.html]<!-- this link is not meant to be an advert, only an example manufacturer's use of the term -->

=====Derived terms=====
*[[bedpan]]
*[[flash in the pan]]
*[[frying pan]]
*[[pan man]]

=====Translations=====
'''flat vessel'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|pan]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[pannu]]
*French: [[poêle]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*German: [[Pfanne]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[caçarola]] {{f}}
*Telugu: [[పెనం]] (penaM)
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pan|n|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To wash in a pan (of earth, sand etc. when searching for gold).
# {{intransitive}} To turn out (in a specified way); to turn out well.
# {{transitive}} To [[disparage]]; to [[belittle]]; to [[put down]]; to criticise severely.
#: ''The critics really '''panned''' that movie.''

===Etymology 2===
From a clipped form of [[panorama]].

====Verb====
{{en-verb|pan|n|ing}}

# {{transitive & intransitive}} To turn horizontally (of a camera etc.).

=====Derived terms=====
*[[pan and scan]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
{{nl-noun|g=f|pannen|pannetje}}

# [[#English|pan]]

----

==French==

===Etymology===
Latin [[pannus]]

===Noun===
'''pan'''

# [[lap]] (of coat)
# Side[[wall]]

[[Category:French nouns]]

----

==Japanese==

===[[Romaji]]===
'''pan'''

# [[パン]] (''bread'')

----

==Malay==

===Noun===
'''pan'''

# [[grandmother]]

----

==Polish==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/pan/}}

===Noun===
'''pan''' {{m}} (plural '''[[panowie#Polish|panowie]]''', ''dative singular'' '''[[panu]]''', ''vocative singular'' '''[[panie]]''')

# [[gentleman]], [[man]]
# [[master]], [[teacher]]
# [[lord]]
# [[Mr]], [[mister]]

===Pronoun===
'''pan'''

# [[you]] (''polite'' ''[[second person]]'' {{m}}-''personal'' ''[[nominative]]'', it takes [[verb]]s as [[third-person]] {{s}} form'')

===See also===
*[[Appendix:Polish language - personal pronoun declension|Declension]].

[[Category:Polish pronouns]]
[[Category:Polish nouns]]

----

==Spanish==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[panis]]''

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/pan/}}, {{SAMPA|/pan/}}

===Noun===
{{es-noun-m|plural=panes}}

# [[bread]]
#: ''Para mi [[desayuno]], [[tomar|tomo]] '''pan''' y [[leche]]'' - For my breakfast, I have bread and milk

====Derived terms====
*[[panadería]] {{f}}
*[[panificador]] {{f}}

===See also===
*[[tostada]] - Toast
*[[vino]] - Wine

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[de:pan]]
[[et:pan]]
[[el:pan]]
[[es:pan]]
[[fr:pan]]
[[ko:pan]]
[[io:pan]]
[[id:pan]]
[[it:pan]]
[[ku:pan]]
[[hu:pan]]
[[nl:pan]]
[[no:pan]]
[[pl:pan]]
[[pt:pan]]
[[sl:pan]]
[[fi:pan]]
[[ta:pan]]
[[vi:pan]]
[[zh:pan]]