The belief that the universe is part of God but that, unlike in pantheism, God is more than the universe or transends it. See
Cosmotheism.


Jews, Marxists, and Pan-atheists at Wikipedia
http://www.wikipedia.com censor article below
on Cosmotheism:

----------------------------------------------------------------------



'''Cosmotheism''' is a form of [[classical pantheism]] that
identifies [[God]] with the ''cosmos'', that is, with the
[[universe]] as a unified whole.

==Overview==

Cosmotheism asserts that "all is within God and God is within all".
It considers the nature of reality and of existence to be mutable and
destined to co-evolve towards a complete "universal consciousness",
or godhood.

[[etymology|Etymologically]], ''Cosmotheism'' differs from 'Pan-
theism' in that "pan" is [[Ancient Greek|Classical Greek]]
for ''all'', while the Greek word ''cosmos'' means an orderly and
harmonious universe. Cosmotheists take this as meaning the divine is
tantamount to reality and consciousness, an inseparable part of an
orderly, harmonious, and whole universal system.

In its broadest sense, the word Cosmotheism may be considered simply
as being synonymous with ''[[pantheism]]'', although not all modern
pantheists would accept Cosmotheism as a synonym for their own
worldview due to the historical association of Cosmotheism with a
political movement, [[white separatism]], which some within the
pantheist community may find objectionable.

According to a Cosmotheist Web site dedicated to the late Dr.
[[William Luther Pierce|William Pierce]]:

:"''Cosmotheism is a religion which positively asserts that there is
an internal purpose in life and in cosmos, and there is an essential
unity, or consciousness that binds all living beings and all of the
inorganic cosmos, as one.''"

:"''What is our true human identity is we are the cosmos made self-
aware and self-conscious by evolution. ''"

:"''Our true human purpose is to know and to complete ourselves as
conscious individuals and also as a self-aware species and thereby to
co-evolve with the cosmos towards total and universal awareness, and
towards the ever higher perfection of consciousness and
being.''"[http://www.cosmotheism.net/]

Some claim [[Albert Einstein]] was a Cosmotheist,
[http://www.asa3.org/ASA/PSCF/1982/JASA3-82Seeger.html], along with
[[Carl Sagan]], [[Benedict Spinoza]] and other historical
figures&mdash;although there is no quoted evidence of any of these
three claiming to be "cosmotheist" as such, and all could also be
said to be [[Pantheist]].

==Mordekhay Nesiyahu's Cosmotheism==
In [[Israel]], Cosmotheism was described by [[Mordekhay Nesiyahu]],
one of the foremost ideologists of the [[Israeli Labor Movement]] and
a lecturer in its college Beit Berl in Israel.

In ''Cosmotheism; Israel, Zionism, Judaism and Humanity towards the
21st Century'', Nesiyahu proposed not to just assume the existence of
God, being "prior to all that was created," but to consider God as
only being a result of the development of the universe and the
consciousness of all of humankind.

Divinity in this particular view is inherently a human invention.

The development of the divine (or what the believer would qualify as
being "the revelation of the Divine") was, in Nesiyahu's opinion,
both the condition for a more exalted human functioning and all that
bears the fruit that comes out of it.

In Nesiyahu's universalist re-imagining of a secular divinity, the
universal celebration of Cosmotheism is the basis for rebuilding the
Jewish Temple in Jerusalem, and is also a secular ethnically Jewish
and a Zionist contribution to all of humankind.

==William L. Pierce's Cosmotheism==

===Origins===
In the United States, ''Cosmotheism'' sometimes refers to a religion
adopted in [[1978]] by [[National Alliance]] founder and [[white
separatist]] Dr. [[William Luther Pierce|William L. Pierce]]. Pierce
affirms his cosmotheist belief in a speech that he once gave
entitled "Our Cause":

:''"All we require is that you share with us a commitment to the
simple, but great, truth which I have explained to you here, that you
understand that you are a part of the whole, which is the creator,
that you understand that your purpose, the purpose of mankind and the
purpose of every other part of creation, is the creator's purpose,
that this purpose is the never-ending ascent of the path of creation,
the path of life symbolized by our life rune, that you understand
that this path leads ever upward toward the creator's self-
realization, and that the destiny of those who follow this path is
godhood."''

His interpretation of cosmotheism, see "Our Cause", was greatly
influenced by several disparate factors: interpretations of [[George
Bernard Shaw]]'s play ''[[Man and Superman]]''; strains of [[German
Romanticism]]; [[Charles Darwin|Darwinian]] concepts of [[natural
selection]] and of survival of the fittest, mixed with the related
early [[20th century]] [[eugenics|eugenic]] ideals; and [[Ernst
Haeckel]]'s version of [[monism]].

===Religion, society, and race===

The foundation of Pierce's Cosmotheism was essentially similar to
classical monistic pantheism; he recognized no physical difference or
separation between human and divine, between creator and created;
but with a few differences. -- most notably his idea of the "degree
of consciousness of the whole, within".

Pierce described his form of Cosmotheism as being based on "[t]he
idea of an evolutionary universe ... with an evolution toward ever
higher and higher states of self-consciousness," and his political
ideas were centered on racial purity and [[eugenics]] as the means of
advancing the [[white race]] first towards a superhuman state, and
then towards godhood. In his view, the white race represented the
pinnacle of human evolution thus far and therefore should be kept
genetically separate from all other races in order to achieve its
destined perfection in Godhood.

Pierce believed in a hierarchical society governed by what he saw as
the essential principles of nature, including the survival of the
fittest. In his social schema, the best-adapted genetic stock, which
he believed to be the [[white race]], should remain separated from
other races; and within an all-white society, the most fit
individuals should lead the rest. He thought that extensive programs
of "racial cleansing" and of [[eugenics]], both in Europe and in the
U.S., would be necessary to achieve this socio-political program.

His [[National Alliance]] was to be the political vanguard and the
spiritual priesthood of this program, which was designed ultimately
to bring about a "White racial redemption". His Cosmotheist Community
Church, which was to be the next step of this plan, was set up in the
mid-1970s, alongside Pierce's other political projects; the National
Alliance, National Vanguard Books, and the weekly
broadcast ''American Dissident Voices''; all from his mountain
retreat headquarters in West Virginia.

===Critical assessments===
Pierce's views have been characterized as a version of early
twentieth century racial anthropology, but driven by spiritual, as
well as scientific, beliefs. This area of his belief was likely
influenced by his early association with [[George Lincoln
Rockwell]]'s [[American Nazi Party]]. Others have noted the German
Romantic roots that Pierce's ideas shared with [[Nazism]] and have
observed similarities between the two ideologies: Pierce's plan for
white divinity was similar to [[Adolf Hitler]]'s vision for
the ''[[Master race|Herrenvolk]]''; also, his attacks against Jews
as "parasites" on white society, who would prevent the white race
from reaching its destined godhood by replacing the white elite with
their own kind, echoed previous Nazi descriptions of Jewish traits
and character. [http://www.natvan.com/who-rules-america/wra.pdf]

Other criticisms have been harsher; for example, the [[Southern
Poverty Law Center]] has characterized Pierce's Cosmotheism as "an
unsuccessful tax dodge". (Followers of Pierce's cosmotheism call many
of these characterizations erroneous, some [[National Alliance]]
members attributing them to "Marxist politically-correct slander and
dogmatism.")

==Related articles==
*[[Classical pantheism]]
*[[Creativity Movement]]
*[[Eugenics]]
*[[List of Pantheists]]
*[[Pan-atheism]]
*[[Panentheism]]
*[[Pantheism]]
*[[Pseudo-pantheism]]

==References==
*''Cosmotheism, Israel, Zionism, Judaism and Humanity - towards the
21st Century'' by Mordecai Nesinyahu (Poetica - Tuvi Sopher
Publishing, Tel Aviv.)
*''Gods of the Blood: The Pagan Revival and White Separatism'', by
Mattias Gardell (ISBN 0822330717)
*''The Turner Diaries and Cosmotheism: William Pierce's Theology of
Revolution'', by Brad Whitsel; published in ''Nova Religio'' Vol.1,
No.2, April 1998.

==External links==

=== Mordekhay Nesiyahu's cosmotheism ===

*[http://members.tripod.com/~TheHOPE/mikt2.htm Nesiyahu's
interpretation of Cosmotheism]

===William L. Pierce's Cosmotheism ===

====Jewish-Marxist and Pan-atheist Criticism====

*[http://www.alphalink.com.au/~radnat/usanazis/cosmotheism.html ''The
Turner Diaries and Cosmotheism: William Pierce's Theology of
Revolution''] by Brad Whitsel (''Nova Religio'')
*''Gods of the Blood: The Pagan Revival and White Separatism'', by
Mattias Gardell (ISBN 0822330717)
*[http://www.pantheist-
index.net/Distortions_Aberrations/Hugenholtz.html ''A Blemish on the
Blossom: Pantheism and White-Supremacist Hate Groups''] by Esther
Hugenholtz (''Pantheist Index'')
*[http://www.encyclopedia4u.com/p/pseudo-pantheism.html Pseudo-
Pantheism] (Encyclopedia4U)

====Advocacy====
*[http://www.cosmotheism.net Cosmotheism site]
**[http://bks.ark11.net/dpm.htm A Tribute to the late Dr. William L.
Pierce]
**[http://www.cosmotheism.net/thepath.shtml The Path], by Dr. William
L. Pierce
**[http://www.cosmotheism.net/onlivingthings.shtml On Living Things],
by Dr. William L. Pierce
**[http://www.cosmotheism.net/onsociety.shtml On Society] by Dr.
William L. Pierce
**[http://www.cosmotheism.net/affirmations.shtml An example of a
Cosmotheist affirmation of belief]
**[http://www.nationalvanguard.org/story.php?id=3482 Our Cause, A
Speech on Cosmotheism by the late Dr. William L. Pierce]
**[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0759609330/102-
6676005-3434513?v=glance "The Fame of a Man's Deeds"]

[[Category:Pantheism]]