==English==
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: păr'ə-lĕl"

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

===Adjective===
'''parallel'''

# Of two or more (straight) lines, (flat) surfaces etc: [[equally|Equally]] [[distant]] from one another at all points.
#:''The horizontal lines on my notebook paper are parallel.''
# '''parallel to''': Of one thing, relative to another: Equally distant from at all points.
#:''The railway line runs parallel to the road.''

====Antonyms====
*[[perpendicular]], [[skew]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[evenwijdig]], [[evenwijdige]], parallel, [[parallelle]] (1)
*Esperanto: [[paralela]] (1)
*Finnish: [[rinnakkainen]] (1,2), [[yhdensuuntainen]] (2)
*French: [[parallèle]] (1), parallèle à (2)
*German: [[parallel]] (1), [[parallel]] [[zu]] (2)
*Polish: [[równoległy]] (1)

===Noun===
{{en-noun|parallel|parallels}}

# One of a set of parallel [[line]]s.
# A line of [[latitude]].
#:''The 31st parallel passes through the center of my town.''

====Antonyms====
*[[perpendicular]], [[skew]] (?)

====Translations====
'''one of a set of parallel lines'''
*German: [[Parallele]] ''f''
*Dutch: [[evenwijdige]]

'''line of latitude'''
*Dutch: [[breedtegraad]]
*French: [[parallèle]] ''m''
*Polish: [[równoleżnik]] ''m''

===Verb===
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
{{en-verb2|'''to parallel'''|'''[[parallels]]'''|'''[[paralleled]] '''in British and American English, or, possible in British English only,''' [[parallelled]]'''|'''[[paralleled]] '''in British and American English, or, possible in British English only,''' [[parallelled]]'''|'''[[paralleling]] '''in British and American English, or, possible in British English only,''' [[parallelling]]'''}}
# to [[construct]] something parralel to something else
#Of a path etc: To be parallel to something else.
#Of a process etc: To be [[analogous]] to something else.
#To [[compare]] or [[liken]] something to something else.

===Related terms===
*[[parallelogram]]
*[[unparalleled]]

==German==

===Adjective===
'''parallel'''

# ('''parallel''') (''of two or more straight things'') Equally distant from one another at all points.
#:''Die Linien meines Schreibpapiers laufen exakt parallel.''
# ('''parallel zu''') (''of one thing, relative to another'') Equally distant at at all points, side to side.
#:''Die eine Bahnschiene verläuft auch in der Kurve stets parallel zur anderen.''
# ('''parallel zu''') (''of one thing, relative to another'') Side to side, serving the same purpose, leading to the same place or result.
#:''Die Autobahn verläuft parallel zur Eisenbahn aber in ganz unterschiedlichen Biegungen und Kurven.''
#:''Die Eheleute hatten nichts verabredet, so haben sie parallel (zueinander) eingekauft.''

====Antonyms====
=====Equally distant and straight=====
*[[gekreuzt]], [[schief]], [[windschief]]
=====Equally distant, relative=====
*[[gekreuzt]], [[schief]], [[windschief]]
=====Same purpose, goal, or direction=====
*[[gekreuzt]], [[schief]], [[windschief]]

====Translations====
=====Equally distant and straight=====
*Dutch: [[evenwijdig]], [[evenwijdige]], [[parallel]], [[parallelle]]
*{{en}}: [[parallel]]
*Esperanto: [[paralela]]
*Finnish: [[rinnakkainen]]
*French: [[parallèle]]
*Polish: [[równoległy]]

=====Equally distant, relative=====
*{{en}}: [[parallel to]]
*Finnish: [[rinnakkainen]], [[yhdensuuntainen]]
*French: [[parallèle  à]]
=====Same purpose, goal, or direction=====

===Related terms===
*[[Parallele]]
*[[Parallelenparalaxe]]
*[[parallelisieren]]
*[[Parallelogramm]]
*[[Parallelverschiebung]]

[[de:parallel]]
[[fr:parallel]]
[[io:parallel]]
[[it:parallel]]
[[hu:parallel]]
[[nl:parallel]]
[[pl:parallel]]
[[fi:parallel]]
[[zh:parallel]]