==English==

===Pronunciation===
* [[IPA]]: /'pa:rk/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A tract of ground kept in its natural state, about or adjacent to a residence, as for the preservation of game, for walking, riding, or the like.
# A piece of ground, in or near a city or town, enclosed and kept for ornament and recreation; as, Hyde Park in London; Central Park in New York.
# A space occupied by the animals, wagons, pontoons, and materials of all kinds, as ammunition, ordnance stores, hospital stores, provisions, etc., when brought together; also, the objects themselves; as, a park of wagons; a park of artillery.
# A partially inclosed basin in which oysters are grown.
# A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant.

====Antonyms====
* (''a piece of ground in or near a city''): [[building]], [[skyscraper]], [[street]]

====Synonyms====
* (''a piece of ground in or near a city''): [[courtyard]], [[garden]], [[plaza]]

====Example usage====
* (''a piece of ground in or near a city''): '''1994:''' “I roamed the streets and '''parks''', as far removed from the idea of art and pretense as I could take myself, discovering there the kind of truth I was supposed to be setting down on paper…” –''The Blue Star'', Robert Ferro

====Translations====

'''ground for preservation of game, etc'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''ground for recreation'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: حديقة, منتزه
*[[Cantonese]]: 公園 (gung1 yun4)
*Chinese: 公园 / 公園 (gōngyuán)
*Esperanto: parko
*French: [[parc]] ''m'', [[jardin public]] ''m''
*German: Park ''m''
*Hebrew: פרק
*[[Hindi]]: बाग़ (bāga)
*Italian: [[parco]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Interlingua: hortus
*Japanese: 公園  (こうえん / kouen)
*Korean: 공원 (gongwon)
*Russian: парк (park)
*Spanish: [[parque]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[park#Swedish|park]] ''c''
{{bottom}}

'''space occupied by animals, wagons, etc'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''basin where oysters are grown'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|park||}}

# To bring (something such as a vehicle) to a halt or store in a specified place.
# To bring together in a park, or compact body.
# To enclose in a park, or as in a park.
# {{baseball}} To hit a [[home run]], to hit the ball out of the park.
#: ''He really '''parked''' that one.''
# {{slang}} To engage in romantic or sexual activities inside a nonmoving vehicle.

'''bring to a halt'''
{{top}}
*French: [[garer]], [[parquer]]
*Italian: [[sostare]], [[parcheggiare]]
*Spanish: [[estacionar]]
{{mid}}
*Swahili: [[kuegesha]]
*Swedish: [[parkera]] (''if the intention is to leave the vehicle, otherwise [[stanna]]'')
{{bottom}}

'''bring together in a park'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''enclose in a park'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

----

==German==
===Noun===
'''Park''' ''m''

#park

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''park''' (''pl'' [[parker]], ''def sing'' [[parken]], ''def pl'' [[parkerna]])

#park (''in a city'')

[[ang:park]]
[[fa:park]]
[[fr:park]]
[[hr:park]]
[[io:park]]
[[id:park]]
[[it:park]]
[[nl:park]]
[[pl:park]]
[[ro:park]]
[[fi:park]]
[[ta:park]]
[[zh:park]]