==English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed from French ''parvenu'', past participle of ''[[parvenir]]'', meaning "to arrive", learning borrowing from Latin ''[[pervenire]]'', from ''per-'' meaning "through" + ''venire'' meaning "to come."

===Noun===
'''parvenu'''
parvenu \PAR-vuh-noo; -nyoo\, noun:
#One that has recently or suddenly risen to a higher social or economic class but has not gained social acceptance of others in that class; an upstart.
#A person who has risen, climbed up, or has been promoted from his class, especially through acquisition of wealth, rights, or political authority.
#A person who has climbed the corporate ladder.
#A person who has risen to a higher place than original or customary.

adjective:
#Being a parvenu; also, like or having the characteristics of a parvenu.

:''But the favourite's power and influence provoke intense ill-feeling among other courtiers, who regard him as a sinister usurping '''parvenu''' with ideas above his station, or perhaps even a sorcerer.
:::::-Francis Wheen, "The whole truth about Peter's friends," The Guardian, January 31, 2001

:''However, the Creoles, French, Spanish, and Acadians who preceded the American '''parvenus''' were deeply entrenched and incredibly snobbish and clannish in relation to outsiders.
:::::-Laurence Bergreen, Louis Armstrong: An Extravagant Life

:''When John Stewart Parnell went up to Magdalene College, Cambridge in 1865 he found that "the sons of moneyed '''parvenus''' from the North of England tried to liken themselves to country gentlemen and succeeded in looking like stable boys."
:::::-J. Mordaunt Crook, The Rise of the Nouveaux Riches

:''The Progressives were of the educated middle class, angry at the rule of '''parvenu''' financiers and industrialists.
:::::-Norman Birnbaum, After Progress

{{seeCites}}

===Translations===
*[[French]]: [[parvenu]] ''m'', [[parvenue]] ''f''
*[[Italian]]: [[pervenito]] ''m sg'', [[perveniti]] ''m pl'', [[pervenita]] ''f sg'', [[pervenite]] ''f sg''
*[[Latin]]: [[pervenitus]] ''m'', [[pervenita]] ''f''
*[[Portuguese]]: [[parvenido]] ''m'', [[parvenida]] ''f''
*[[Spanish]]: [[parvenido]] ''m'', [[parvenida]] ''f''