==English==

{{rank|opened|purpose|fall|545|pass|doing|note|pay}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-pass.ogg|Audio (US)}}


===Verb===
{{en-verb|pass|passes|passed|passing}}
====Intransitive====
# To move or be moved from one place to another.
# To change from one state to another.
# To move beyond the range of the senses or of knowledge.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''Beauty is a charm, but soon the charm will pass.'' &mdash; Dryden
# ''(with "on" or "away"):'' To [[die]].
# To come and go in consciousness.
# To [[happen]].
# Of time, to [[elapse]], to be spent.
#:''Their vacation passed pleasantly.''
# To go from one person to another.
# To advance through all the steps or stages necessary to [[validity]] or [[effectiveness]].
#:''The bill passed both houses of Congress.''
# To go through any inspection or test successfully.
#:''He attempted the examination, but did not expect to pass.''
# To be [[tolerate]]d.
# To continue.
# To proceed without hindrance or opposition.
# {{obsolete}}: To go beyond bounds; to surpass; to be in excess.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''This passes, Master Ford.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
# {{obsolete}}: To [[take heed]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
#:To go through the [[intestine]]s.  (Arbuthnot)
# ''(law):'' To be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance.
#:''An estate passes by a certain clause in a deed.''
# ''(fencing):'' To make a lunge or swipe.
# In any game, to decline to play in one's turn.
# In [[euchre]], to decline to make the trump.

=====Synonyms=====

*(''move or be moved from one place to another''): [[go]], [[move]]
*(''change from one state to another''):
*(''move beyond the range of the senses or of knowledge''):
*(''die''): [[pass away]], [[pass over]]
*(''come and go in consciousness''):
*(''happen''): [[happen]], [[occur]]
*(''elapse''): [[elapse]], [[go by]]
*(''go from one person to another''):
*(''advance through all the steps or stages necessary to validity or effectiveness''):
*(''go through any inspection or test successfully''):
*(''to be tolerated''):
*(''to continue''): [[continue]], [[go on]]
*(''proceed without hindrance or opposition''):
*(''obsolete: go beyond bounds''): [[exceed]], [[surpass]]
*(''obsolete: take heed''): [[take heed]], [[take notice]]
*(''go through the intestines''):
*(''be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance''):
*(''fencing: to make a lunge or pass''): [[thrust]]
*(''decline to play in one's turn''):
*(''in euchre, decline to make the trump''):

====Translations====

'''move or be moved from one place to another'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[liikkua]] (''intransitive''), [[liikuttaa]] (''transitive'')
{{mid}}
*Swahili: [[kupita]]
{{bottom}}

'''change from one state to another'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[muuttua]], [[vaihtua]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''move beyond the range of the senses or of knowledge'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kadota]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''die'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[poistua]], [[kuolla]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''come and go in consciousness'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''happen'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tapahtua]], [[käydä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''elapse'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kulua]], [[mennä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''go from one person to another'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[siirtyä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''advance through all the steps or stages necessary to validity or effectiveness'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[läpäistä]], [[mennä]] [[läpi]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''go through any inspection or test successfully'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[mennä]] [[läpi]], [[läpäistä]], [[päästä]] [[läpi]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to be tolerated'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sietää]], [[käydä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to continue'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[jatkua]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''proceed without hindrance or opposition'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''obsolete: go beyond bounds'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''obsolete: take heed'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''go through the intestines'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fencing: to make a lunge or pass'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''decline to play in one's turn'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[passata]], [[jättää väliin]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in euchre, decline to make the trump'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

Japanese: [[経つ]] (tatsu)

====Transitive====
#To go by, over, through, or the like; to proceed from one side to the other of.
#:''pass a house''
#To go from one limit to the other of; to spend.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''To pass commodiously this life.'' &mdash; Milton
#To live through; to have experience of; to undergo; to suffer.
#::''She loved me for the dangers I had passed.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
#To go by without noticing; to omit attention to; to take no note of; to disregard.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''Please you that I may pass This doing.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
#::''I pass their warlike pomp, their proud array.'' &mdash; Dryden
#To transcend; to surpass; to excel; to exceed.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''And strive to pass . . . Their native music by her skillful art.'' &mdash; Spenser
#::''Whose tender power Passes the strength of storms in their most desolate hour.'' &mdash; Byron
#To go successfully through, as an examination, trail, test, etc.
#:''He passed his examination.''
#To obtain the formal sanction of, as a legislative body.
#:''The bill passed the senate.''
#To cause to move or go; to send; to transfer from one person, place, or condition to another; to transmit; to deliver; to hand; to make over.
#:''The waiter passed biscuit and cheese.''
#:''The torch was passed from hand to hand.''
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''I had only time to pass my eye over the medals.'' &mdash; Addison
#::''Waller passed over five thousand horse and foot by Newbridge.'' &mdash; Clarendon
#To cause to pass the lips; to utter; to pronounce.
#Hence, to promise; to pledge.
#:''to pass sentence'' &mdash; Shakespeare
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''Father, thy word is passed.'' &mdash; Milton
#To cause to advance by stages of progress; to carry on with success through an ordeal, examination, or action; specifically, to give legal or official sanction to; to ratify; to enact; to approve as valid and just.
#:''He passed the bill through the committee.''
#:''The senate passed the law.''
#To put in circulation; to give currency to.
#:''pass counterfeit money''
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''Pass the happy news.'' &mdash; Tennyson
#To cause to obtain entrance, admission, or conveyance.
#:''pass a person into a theater or over a railroad''
#(''medical'') To emit from the bowels.
#(''nautical'') To take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure.
#(''fencing'') To make, as a thrust, punto, etc.

====Synonyms====

*(''go by, over, etc''): [[pass by]], [[pass over]], etc.
*(''go from one limit to the other of''): [[spend]]
*(''live through''): [[bear]], [[endure]], [[suffer]], [[tolerate]], [[undergo]]
*(''go by without noticing''): [[disregard]], [[ignore]], [[take no notice of]]
*(''transcend''): [[better]], [[exceed]], [[excel]], [[outdo]], [[surpass]], [[transcend]]
*(''go successfully through''):
*(''obtain the formal sanction of''): be [[accept]]ed by, be passed by
*(''cause to move or go''): [[deliver]], [[give]], [[hand]], [[make over]], [[send]], [[transfer]], [[transmit]]
*(''utter''): [[pronounce]], [[say]], [[speak]], [[utter]]
*(''promise''): [[pledge]], [[promise]], [[vow]]
*(''cause to advance by stages of process''): [[approve]], [[enact]], [[ratify]]
*(''put into circulation''): [[circulate]], [[pass around]]
*(''cause to obtain entrance''): [[admit]], [[let in]], [[let]] [[past]]
*(''medical: emit from the bowels''): [[evacuate]], [[void]]
*(''nautical: take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure'')
*(''fencing: make, as a thrust, punto''): [[make]]

=====Translations=====

'''go by, over, etc'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''go from one limit to the other of'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''live through'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''go by without noticing'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''transcend'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''go successfully through'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''obtain the formal sanction of'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''cause to move or go'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swahili: [[kupitisha]]
{{bottom}}

'''utter'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''promise'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''cause to advance by stages of process'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''put into circulation'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''cause to obtain entrance'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''medical: emit from the bowels'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''nautical: take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure'')
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fencing: make, as a thrust, punto'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|pass|passes}}

#An opening, road, or track, available for passing; especially, one through or over some dangerous or otherwise impracticable barrier; a passageway; a defile; a ford.
#:''a mountain pass''
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''"Try not the pass!" the old man said.'' &mdash; Longfellow
#(''fencing'') A thrust or push; an attempt to stab or strike an adversary. (Shakespeare)
#A movement of the hand over or along anything; the manipulation of a mesmerist.
#(''rolling metals'') A single passage of a bar, rail, sheet, etc., between the rolls.
#The state of things; condition; predicament.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''Have his daughters brought him to this pass.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
#::''Matters have been brought to this pass.'' &mdash; South.
#Permission or license to pass, or to go and come.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:''A ship sailing under the flag and pass of an enemy.'' &mdash; Kent
#{{baseball}} An [[intentional walk]]
#: ''Smith was given a '''pass''' after Jones' double.''
#A document granting permission to pass or to go and come; a passport; a ticket permitting free transit or admission; as, a railroad or theater pass; a military pass.
#(''figurative'') A thrust; a sally of wit.  (Shakespeare)
#(''obsolete'') Estimation; character.
#:'''Quotations'''
#::''Common speech gives him a worthy pass.'' &mdash; Shakespeare
#(''obsolete''; ''Chaucer''; ''compare [[passus]]'') A part, a division.

====Synonyms====

*(''opening, road, or track, available for passing''):
*(''fencing: thrust or push''): [[thrust]]
*(''movement of the hand over or along anything; the manipulation of a mesmerist''):
*(''rolling metals: a single passage of a bar, rail, sheet, etc., between the rolls''):
*(''the state of things''): [[condition]], [[predicament]], [[state]]
*(''permission or license to pass, or to go and come''): [[access]], [[admission]], [[entry]]
*(''document granting permission to pass or to go and come''):
*(''figurative: a thrust; a sally of wit''):
*(''obsolete: estimation; character''):
*(''obsolete: a part, a division''):

====Translations====

'''opening, road, or track, available for passing'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[passage]]
{{bottom}}

'''fencing: thrust or push'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''movement of the hand over or along anything; the manipulation of a mesmerist'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''rolling metals: a single passage of a bar, rail, sheet, etc., between the rolls'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''the state of things'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''permission or license to pass, or to go and come'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''document granting permission to pass or to go and come'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: pass {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''figurative: a thrust; a sally of wit'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''obsolete: estimation; character'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''obsolete: a part, a division'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[bring to pass]]
*[[come to pass]]
*[[pass away]]
*[[pass boat]]<!--(Naut.), a punt, or similar boat.-->
*[[Pass book]]<!--(a) A book in which a trader enters articles bought on credit, and then passes or sends it to the purchaser. (b) See Bank book.-->
*[[pass box]]<!-- (Mil.), a wooden or metallic box, used to carry cartridges from the service magazine to the piece.-->
*[[pass by]]
*[[pass check]]<!-- a ticket of admission to a place of entertainment, or of readmission for one who goes away in expectation of returning. -->
*[[pass into]]
*[[pass off]]
*[[pass on]]
*[[pass over]]
*[[Passover]]
*[[pass upon]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''pass''' {{n}}

#pass (''between mountains'')
#pass (''document granting permission to pass'')
#(''in certain games'') Statement that the player can't, or does not wish, to make a move.

[[fr:pass]]
[[io:Pass]]
[[it:pass]]
[[fi:pass]]