==English==
===Etymology===
From Latin '''[[pastor]]''', ''shepherd'', + adjective suffix '''[[-alis]]'''

===Adjective===
(Pas"tor*al) [L. ''pastoralis'': cf. F. ''pastoral''. See [[Pastor]].]
#Of or pertaining to shepherds; hence, relating to rural life and scenes; as, a pastoral life.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He wanders west as far as Memphis, a solitary migrant upon that flat and ''pastoral'' landscape. - 1985 [[w:Cormac McCarthy|McCarthy]], ''[[w:Blood Meridian|Blood Meridian]]'', chapter 1.
#Relating to the care of souls, or to the pastor of a church; as, ''pastoral'' duties; a ''pastoral'' letter.

'''Pastoral staff''' (''Eccl''.), a staff, usually of the form of a shepherd's crook, borne as an official emblem by a bishop, abbot, abbess, or other prelate privileged to carry it. See [[Crook]], and [[Crosier]]. - '''Pastoral Theology''', that part of theology which treats of the duties of pastors.

====Translations====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*{{fi}}: [[paimen-]], [[papillinen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}

===Noun===
(Pas"tor*al) 
#A poem describing the life and manners of shepherds; a poem in which the speakers assume the character of shepherds; an idyl; a bucolic.
#(''Mus''.) A cantata relating to rural life; a composition for instruments characterized by simplicity and sweetness; a lyrical composition the subject of which is taken from rural life. Moore
#(''Eccl''.) A letter of a pastor to his charge; specifically, a letter addressed by a bishop to his diocese; also (''Prot''. ''Epis''. ''Ch''.), a letter of the House of Bishops, to be read in each parish.

====Translations====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to I go here-->
*{{fi}}: [[pastoraali]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from J to Z go here-->
|}
|}