==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-patch.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

# A piece of cloth, or other suitable material, sewed or otherwise fixed upon a garment to repair or strengthen it, esp. upon an old garment to cover a hole.
# A small piece of anything used to repair a breach; as, a patch on a kettle, a roof, etc.
# A small piece of black silk stuck on the face, or neck, to hide a defect, or to heighten beauty.
# A piece of greased cloth or leather used as wrapping for a rifle ball, to make it fit the bore.
# A small area, a small piece of ground; a tract; a plot; as, scattered patches of trees or growing corn.
# A short period of time, especially one which causes trouble.
# (figuratively) a fit.
# A block on the muzzle of a gun, to do away with the effect of dispart, in sighting.
# (archaic) A paltry fellow; a rogue; a ninny; a fool.
# (''computing'') A file describing changes made to a computer file or files, usually changes made to a computer program that fix a programming [[bug]].  A [[patch file]], a file used for input to a patch program.
# An [[adhesive]] piece of [[material]], [[impregnate]]d with a [[drug]], which is worn on the [[skin]]; the drug being slowly [[absorbed]] over a period of time.
# A small piece of material that is manually passed through a gun barrel to clean it.

====Synonyms====
* ('''computing''') [[diff file]]

====Translations====
'''piece of cloth used to repair something'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[paikka]]
*Turkish: [[yama]]
{{mid}}
*Slovak: [[záplata#Slovak|záplata]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[remendo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''small piece of anything used to repair something'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[paikka]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''piece of black silk stuck to the face'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''piece of greased cloth used to wrap a rifle ball'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''small piece (of ground, etc)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''block on the muzzle of a gun'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fool'''
''See [[fool]]''

'''computing: a file describing changes made to source code'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[pätsi]] (''colloquial''), [[paikkaus]], [[korjaustiedosto]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Proper noun===
{{en-proper noun}}

# {{computing}} A program that takes a record of differences between one or more files as input and, considering those differences to be a set of changes between old and new file versions, re-applies the changes to files which resemble the old version producing files which resemble the new version.

====Usage notes====
The proper noun "patch" is written in lower case because of [[Unix]] conventions and its [[case sensitive|case sensitivity]].

===Transitive Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|pat|ch|}}

# To mend by sewing on a piece or pieces of cloth, leather, or the like; as, to patch a coat.
# To mend with pieces; to repair with pieces fastened on.
# To repair clumsily; as, to patch the roof of a house.
# To adorn, as the face, with a patch or patches.
# To make of pieces or patches like a quilt.
# To repair as with patches.
# To arrange in a hasty or clumsy manner; – generally with up; as, to patch up a truce.
# (''computing'') To make the changes a patch describes; to [[apply a patch]] to the files in question.  Hence:
## To fix or improve a computer program without a complete [[upgrade]].  
## To make a quick and possibly temporary change to a program.

====Translations====
'''mend by sewing on cloth'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[paikata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''mend with pieces'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[paikata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''repair clumsily'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''adorn with patches (small pieces of black silk)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''make of pieces or patches'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''repair as with patches'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''arrange in a hasty or clumsy manner'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''computing: update source code with a patch'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[paikata]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[apply a patch]]
*[[cabbage patch]]
*[[not a patch on]]
*[[patch file]]
*[[patch up]]
*[[patchwork]]
*[[patchy]]

===Related terms===
*[[diff]]
*[[diff file]]

[[ang:patch]]
[[fr:patch]]
[[zh:patch]]