==English==

===Etymology===
From [[Ancient Greek]] '''[[πάθος]]''' or paschein, the Greek word meaning "to suffer".
 
===Noun===
'''pathos'''

# The [[aspect]] of something which gives rise to a sense of [[pity]]
# In its rhetorical sense, pathos is a writer's attempt to persuade an audience through appeals involving the use of strong emotions.  In this sense, pathos is not strictly limited to pity.  In its critical sense, pathos denotes an author's attempt to evoke a feeling of pity or sympathetic sorrow for a character.


====Quotations====
*'''1790''': The head Sublime, the heart '''Pathos''', the genitals Beauty, the hands & feet Proportion. &mdash; William Blake, ''The Marriage of Heaven and Hell,'' 1790
*'''1841''': His coat, his waistcoat, his shoes and stockings, his trousers, his hat, his wit and humour, his '''pathos''' and his umbrella, all come before me like visions of my youth. &mdash; Charles Dickens, ''The Old Curiosity Shop,'' 1841
*'''1846&ndash;1848''':'Won't you come with your poor Nurse Wickam, Master Paul?' inquired that attendant, with great '''pathos'''. &mdash; Charles Dickens, ''Dombey and Son,'' 1846&ndash;1848
*'''1854''': Finally, she wished him good night, with great '''pathos''' &mdash; Charles Dickens, ''Hard Times,'' 1854
*'''1874''': His voice had a genuine '''pathos''' now, and his large brown hands perceptibly trembled. &mdash; Thomas Hardy, ''Far From The Madding Crowd,'' 1874
*'''1891''': What arrested him now as of value in life was less its beauty than its '''pathos'''. &mdash; Thomas Hardy, ''Tess of the d'Urbervilles,'' 1891.
*'''1919''': With an overwhelming sense of '''pathos''', for there is no '''pathos''' more bitter than that of parting from someone we have never met, George hailed a taxicab which crawled at the side of the road; and, with all the refrains of all the sentimental song hits he had ever composed ringing in his ears, he got in and passed away. &mdash; P.G. Wodehouse, ''A Damsel in Distress,'' 1919


====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[patos#Bosnian|patos]] {{m}}, [[patetika#Bosnian|patetika]] {{f}}
Finnish: [[paatos]]
{{mid}}
*Serbian:
:Cyrillic: [[патос#Serbian|патос]] {{m}}, [[патетика#Serbian|патетика]] {{f}}
:Roman: [[patos#Serbian|patos]] {{m}}, [[patetika#Serbian|patetika]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[pathetic]]
*[[pathology]]

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[fr:pathos]]
[[pl:pathos]]
[[vi:pathos]]