{{Wikipedia}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*AHD: pēch
*IPA: /piːʧ/
*SAMPA: /pi:tS/

===Etymology 1===

Middle English ''peche'', from Old French ''a peach'', from Latin ''persica'' (meaning 'from Persia'), from Greek ''persikē'', from feminine of ''Persikos'' (meaning 'Persian'). See [[perse]].

===Noun===
'''peach''' (''plural'' [[peaches]])

#A small Chinese tree (''[[Prunus]] persica''), widely cultivated throughout temperate regions, having pink flowers and edible fruit.
#The soft juicy fruit of the peach tree, having yellow flesh, downy, red-tinted yellow skin, and a deeply sculptured pit or stone containing a single seed.
#(colour) A light moderate to strong yellowish pink to light orange color.
#:<table><tr><td>peach colour: &nbsp;</td> <td bgcolor="#FFCF9D" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
#(''Informal'') A particularly admirable or pleasing person or thing.
#The large, edible berry of the ''Sarcocephalus esculentus'', a rubiaceous climbing shrub of west tropical Africa.

====Translations====
*Alabama: [[takkola]] (2)
*Breton: [[pechez]] ''collective noun'' [[pechezenn]] ''singular f''
*Catalan: [[préssec]] ''m''
*Chickasaw: [[takolo]] (2)
*Danish: [[fersken]]
*Dutch: [[perzik]] ''m'' (1,2) (''f'' in [[Flemish]] (2)), [[perzikboom]] ''m''
*French: [[pêche]] ''f''
*Frisian: [[pjisk]], [[perzik]]
*Galician: [[pexegueiro]] ''m'' (1), [[pexego]] ''m'' (2)
*German: [[Pfirsich]] ''m''
*Greek: [[rodakino]] (Modern)
*[[Italian]]: [[pesco]] ''m'' (1), [[pesca]] ''f'' (2, 3)
*Japanese: [[桃]] (もも, momo) (1,2), [[桃色]] (ももいろ) (3), [[すてき]]な[[人]]/[[もの]] (sutekina hito/mono) (4)
*Latin: [[persica]]
*Neapolitan: [[pèrzeca]] (2), [[percòca]] (2), [[piérzeco]] (1,2)
*{{ru}}: [[персик]] ''m'' (2)
*Spanish: [[melocotón]] ''m''


====Proper Noun====
'''Peach'''

#(''Nintendo games'') [[Princess Peach Toadstool]].

===Adjective===
'''peach'''

#(colour) Of the color peach.
#Particularly pleasing or agreeable.

====Synonyms====
Agreeable, fair, orange, paragon, rosy.

====Antonyms====
Disagreeable, foul, ugly, unpleasant.
===See also===
*[[Indian peach ]]
*[[laetrile]]
*[[lesser peach tree borer ]]
*[[nectarine]]
*[[open peach]]
*[[peach melba ]]
*[[peach palm ]]
*[[peachy]]
*[[pickle peach ]]
*[[plum peach]]
*[[press peach]]
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]
[[Category:English colors]]


===Etymology 2===

Middle English ''pechen'', from ''apechen'' (meaning 'to accuse') and ''empechen'' (same meaning), possibly from Anglo-Norman ''anpecher'', from Late Latin ''impedicāre'' (meaning 'to entangle'). See [[impeach]].

===Intransitive verb===
'''to peach''' ([[peached]])

#(''Obsolete'') To inform on someone; turn informer.

===Transitive verb===
'''peach''' ([[peached]])

#<!-- is this obsolete, too??? -->To inform against.

====Synonyms====
Sing, squeal, tattle.

====Antonyms====
*[[hide]]
*keep secret


[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[io:Peach]]
[[pl:Peach]]
[[zh:Peach]]