==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)l|-ɜː(r)l]]

===Adjective===
'''pearl'''

#Of or pertaining to pearl or pearls; made of pearls, or of mother-of-pearl.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[paarlen]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[жемчужный]] (žemčúžnyj)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#A [[fringe]] or [[border]].
#A shelly concretion, usually rounded, and having a brilliant [[luster]], with varying [[tint]]s, found in the mantle, or between the mantle and shell, of certain bivalve mollusks, especially in the pearl oysters and river mussels, and sometimes in certain univalves. It is usually due to a secretion of shelly substance around some irritating foreign particle. Its substance is the same as [[nacre]], or mother-of-pearl. Pearls which are round, or nearly round, and of fine luster, are highly esteemed as jewels, and compare in value with the precious stones.
#Hence, figuratively, something resembling a pearl; something very precious.
#Nacre, or mother-of-pearl.
#A fish allied to the turbot; the [[brill]].
#A light-colored [[tern]].
#One of the circle of tubercles which form the bur on a deer's antler.
#A whitish speck or film on the eye.
#A capsule of [[gelatin]] or similar substance containing some liquid for medicinal application, as ether.
#A size of [[type]], between agate and diamond.

====Translations====
'''round shelly concretion from oysters'''
{{top}}
*Croatian: [[biser]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[parel]]
*German: [[Perle]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[gyöngy]]
*Old English: [[meregrot]] {{n}}
*Polish: [[perła]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[жемчуг]] (žémčug) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[perla]]
*Turkish: [[incil]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''to pearl'''

#To set or adorn with pearls, or with mother-of-pearl. Used also figuratively.
#To cause to resemble pearls; to make into small round grains; as, to pearl barley.
#To resemble pearl or pearls.
#To give or hunt for pearls; as, to go [[pearling]].

====Derived terms====
* [[pearling]]

===Homophones===
*[[purl]]

[[Category:Birthstones]]

[[fa:pearl]]
[[fr:pearl]]
[[ko:pearl]]
[[io:pearl]]
[[it:pearl]]
[[pl:pearl]]
[[fi:pearl]]
[[ta:pearl]]
[[vi:pearl]]
[[zh:pearl]]