==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/pi:l/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-iːl|-iːl]]

====Homophones====
*[[peal]]

===Etymology 1===
Alteration of ''[[pill]]'' (verb & noun), perhaps under the influence of Old French ''[[peler]]'' ‘peel’, ''[[piller]]'' ‘pillage’.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{archaic}} {{transitive}} To [[plunder]]; to [[pillage]], [[rob]].
# {{transitive}} To remove the skin or outer covering of.
#:''I sat by my sister's bed, '''peeling''' oranges for her.''
# {{transitive}} To remove from the outer or top layer of.
#:''I '''peeled''' the skin from an orange and ate it hungrily.''
#:''We '''peeled''' the old wallpaper off in strips where it was hanging loose.''
# {{intransitive}} To become detached, come away, especially in flakes or strips; to shed skin in such a way.
#:''I had been out in the sun too long, and my nose was starting to '''peel'''.''
# {{intransitive}} To remove one's clothing.
#:''The children '''peeled''' by the side of the lake and jumped in.''
# {{intransitive}} To [[move]], [[separate]] (off or away)
#:''The scrum-half '''peeled''' off and made for the touchlines.''

=====Synonyms=====
*(''remove outer covering''): [[skin]], [[strip]]
*(''remove clothing''): [[disrobe]], [[strip]]

=====Translations=====
;remove skin
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schillen]]
*Estonian: [[koorima]]
*Finnish:  [[kuoria]]
*French: [[peler]]
*German: [[schälen]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[pelare]]
*Latin: [[glubere]]
*Portuguese: [[descascar]]
*Spanish: [[pelar]]
{{bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
*[[peel off]]
*[[peeler]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# The [[skin]] or outer layer of a fruit, vegetable etc.
# (''Rugby football'') The action of peeling away from a formation.
# A [[cosmetic]] preparation designed to remove dead skin or [[exfoliate]].

=====Synonyms=====
*(''skin of a fruit''): [[rind]]

=====Derived terms=====
*[[orange peel]]

=====Translations=====
;skin of a fruit
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[schil]]
*Finnish:  [[kuori]]
*German: [[Schale]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[buccia]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;cosmetic preparation
{{top}}
*Finnish:  [[kuorintavoide]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Anglo-Norman and Old French ''[[pel]]'' (modern French ''[[pieu]]''), from Latin ''[[palus]]'' ‘stake’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} A [[stake]].
# {{obsolete}} A fence made of stakes; a [[stockade]].
# {{archaic}} A small [[tower]], [[fort]], or [[castle]]; a [[keep]].

=====Derived terms=====
*[[peel-house]]
*[[peel-tower]]

===Etymology 3===
From Old French ''[[pele]]'' (modern ''[[pelle]]''), from Latin ''[[pala]]'', from the base of ''[[plangere]]'' ‘fix, plant’.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A shovel or similar instrument, now especially a pole with a flat disc at the end used for removing [[loaves]] of [[bread]] from a baker's oven.
# A T-shaped implement used by [[printer]]s and [[bookbinder]]s for hanging wet sheets of [[paper]] on lines or poles to dry. 
# {{archaic}} (''US'') The [[blade]] of an [[oar]].

=====Translations=====
;spadelike implement for removing loaves from an oven
{{top}}
*Finnish:  [[leivinlapio]] 
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 4===
Origin unknown.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# (''Scottish and curling'') An [[equal]] or [[match]]; a [[draw]].
# {{curling}} A [[takeout]] which removes a [[stone]] from play as well as the delivered stone.

===Etymology 5===
Named from Walter H. Peel, a noted 19th-century croquet player.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# (''Croquet'') To send through a [[hoop]] (of a ball other than one's own).

===See also===
*[[peel out]]
*[[keep one's eyes peeled]]


[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

[[fa:peel]]
[[fr:peel]]
[[io:peel]]
[[it:peel]]
[[hu:peel]]
[[vi:peel]]
[[zh:peel]]