==English==

===Etymology===
From Ancient Greek πεντηκοστη (''fiftieth [day])

===Proper noun===
'''Pentecost'''

# A [[Jewish]] [[festival]] (also known as [[Shavuot]], the [[Feast of Weeks]] or [[Yom Habikkurim]]) seven weeks after Pesach (Passover), originally a harvest festival but, since the destruction of the [[Temple]], also commemorating the anniversary of the giving of the Ten Commandments to Moses and the Israelites at Mount Sinai. {{rfv-sense}}
#*'''1611:''' ''Bible, King James version, Acts of the Apostles 2:1'' - And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place.
#*'''1854:''' Walter Farquhar Hook, ''A Church Dictionary'' - The first lesson for the morning contains the law of the Jewish '''Pentecost''', or Feast of Weeks, which was a type of ours.
#*'''2005:''' Alfred J Kolatch, ''A Handbook for the Jewish Home'' - Because Shavuot is celebrated on the fiftieth day after the advent of Passover, it has been called '''Pentecost''', a Greek word meaning “fiftieth [day] after Passover".
# The particular (Jewish) Pentecost fifty days ([[inclusive]]) after the [[resurrection]] of [[Jesus]] at [[Easter]], when (in Christian teaching) the [[Holy Spirit]] descended upon the [[Apostle]]s with miraculous effects including the ability to explain the [[Gospel]] intelligibly in languages they did not know; or a similar occasion since.
#*'''1762:''' Voltaire, ''William Vade'' included in ''Works'' - He spoke either Latin or Welsh; and the Sicambri spoke the antient Teutonic.  Remi, in all appearance, renewed the miracle of the '''Pentecost''': ''Et unusquisquis intendebat linguam suam'', And each understood his own language.
#*'''1786:''' Joseph Priestley, ''An History of Early Opinions Concerning Jesus Christ: Compiled from Original Writers; Proving that the Christian Church was at first Unitarian'' - If it be supposed that the divinity of Christ was unknown to the apostles till the day of '''Pentecost''' ... we have no account of any such discovery having been made.
#*'''2005:''' Frank J Lechner, John Boli, ''World Culture: Origins and Consequences'' - They think a new '''Pentecost''' is afoot, in which the Holy Spirit brings millions the good news of salvation in the hereafter and real blessings in the here and now.
# A [[Christian]] [[festival]] (also known as [[Whitsun]] or [[Whitsunday]]), which [[commemorate]]s the [[descent]] of the [[Holy Spirit]] upon the [[Apostle]]s, fifty days ([[inclusive]]) after the [[resurrection]] of [[Christ]] at [[Easter]].
#*'''1797:''' Richard Burn, Simon Fraser, ''Ecclesiastical Law'' - Spiritual profits, commonly called whitsun-farthings, ... offered at the time of '''pentecost'''.
#*'''2005:''' Edward Kessler, Neil Wenborn (editors), ''A Dictionary of Jewish-Christian Relations'' - [[Shavuot]] is linked to [[Passover]] in the same way that '''Pentecost''' is linked to [[Easter]], by a period of seven weeks.
#*'''2006:''' Alister E McGrath, ''Christianity: An Introduction'' - The specific event which is commemorated at '''Pentecost''' is the coming of the Holy Spirit, which is described in the Acts of the Apostles.

====Derived terms====
[[Pentecostal]]

====Translations====
'''Jewish festival'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[Pentecoste]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}
'''Christian festival'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[Pentecoste]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[pingst]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{top}}
{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[helluntai]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[zh:Pentecost]]