{{encyclopaedic}}

[[Pentatonic]] or [[pentatonics]] is the use of (comparably) only black keys on the [[piano]]. The notes corresponding to these keys and the only notes of this scale are: F#, G#, A#, C#, and D# (in the scale it continues on to F# again). This is known as the pentatonic [[major scale]]. Now, as any musician knows, every major scale as a relative [[minor scale]] which corresponds to the sixth note of that [[major scale]]. They also share a [[key signature]]. In pentatonics, the relative [[minor scale]] starts on C#, and continues on to D#, F#, G#, A#, and on to C# again. Pentatonic scales are quite mysterious as they are the basis of [[Native American]], [[Oriental]], [[Viking]], and [[African]] music. Coincidence? Probably not...it's next to impossible to have such a worldwide coincidence. Some theories claim that a bird's call was that of this scale. This bird was common to all continents so many cultures based their music on it. But what [[bird]] could survive and travel to all these different [[climates]]? none. There are many other theories, none of which are plausible...some are slightly, but still not probable. This is quite a quandry that we as humans may never solve. Some people say "Oh--it's quite simple", "Oh it HAS to be this...", and "It must have to do with..." and go on to explain it...but I urge them to really think about it...not quite so simple now is it? Anyone have any theories they've heard? Start a discussion under the discussion tab at the top of this article and we'll see if we can't figure this thing out!