==English==

{{rank|here|thought|found|140|people|still|just|while}}

===Etymology===
c.1275, "humans, persons in general," from Anglo-Fr. ''people'', O.Fr. ''peupel'', from L. ''populus'' "people," of unknown origin, possibly from Etruscan. Replaced native ''folk''. Meaning "body of persons comprising a community" first recorded 1292 in Anglo-Fr.; meaning "common people, masses" (as distinguished from the nobility) first recorded 1306 in Anglo-Fr. The verb is c.1489 (intrans.), c.1500 (trans.). The word was adopted after c.1920 by Communist totalitarian states to give a spurious sense of populism to their governments. Legal phrase ''The People vs.,'' in U.S. cases of prosecution under certain laws, dates from 1801. ''People of the Book'' "those whose religion entails adherence to a book of divine revelation (1834) translates Arab. ''Ahl al-Kitab.''

===Pronunciation===
*[[Pronunciation guide|IPA]]:/'pi:pl/

=== Noun ===
'''people''' (''collective and common noun''; ''plural'' '''peoples''')
# [[Humans]] considered as a group or in indefinite numbers: 
#: ''People were dancing in the street. I met all sorts of people.''
# A body of [[persons]] living in the same [[country]] under one national government; a nationality.
# pl. peo·ples A body of persons sharing a common [[religion]], [[culture]], [[language]], or inherited condition of life.
# Persons with regard to their [[residence]], [[class]], [[profession]], or [[group]]
#: ''city people.''
# The mass of ordinary persons; the [[populace]]. Used with the
#: ''“those who fear and distrust the people, and wish to draw all powers from them into the hands of the higher classes” (Thomas Jefferson).''
# The [[citizens]] of a political unit, such as a nation or state; the electorate. Used with the.
# Persons subordinate to or loyal to a [[ruler]], [[superior]], or [[employer]]
#: ''The queen showed great compassion for her people.''
# [[Family]], [[relatives]], or [[ancestors]].
# '''Informal'''. Animals or other beings distinct from humans: Rabbits and squirrels are the furry little people of the woods.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic:[[الناس]] , [[ʔan-nās]]
*Bosnian: [[ljudi]] ''pl'' (1), [[narod]] ''m'' (2, 3)
*[[Breton]]: [[tud]] ''plural'' (1), [[pobl]] ''f'' -où (2,3)
*Catalan: gent ''f''
*Chinese:[[人们]] (renmen, ren2men5); [[人民]] (renmin, ren2min2)
*[[Croatian]]: [[ljudi]] ''pl'' (1), [[narod]] ''m'' (2, 3)
*Dutch: [[mensen]] ''m plural'' (1), [[volk]] ''n'' (2,3)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[homoj]], [[popolo]]
*Finnish: [[ihmiset]] ''plural'' (1), [[kansa]] (2, 3), [[väestö]] (3)
*French: [[gens]] ''pl'' (1), [[peuple]] ''m'' (3)
*German: [[Leute]] ''pl'' (1), [[Volk]] ''n; pl Völker'' (2, 3)
*[[Greek]]: [[κόσμος]] (kósmos) ''m'' (1), [[λαός]] (laós) ''m'' (2, 3), 
*[[Hebrew]]: [[אנשים]] (anashim)
*Hindi: [[लोग]] (log)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[persona]]s ''pl'' (1), [[populo]] (2, 3)
*Italian: [[gente]] ''f'' (1), [[popolo]] ''m'' (2, 3) 
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[人々]], [[国民]], [[庶民]]
*Latin: [[populus]] ''m'', [[gens]] ''f'' (2)
*Lithuanian: [[žmonės]] ''m, pl'' (1), [[liaudis]] ''f'' (3)
*Polish: [[Ludzie]] ''pl'' (1), [[naród]] (2, 3)
*Portuguese: [[pessoa]]s ''f'' ''plural'' (1), [[povo]] ''m'' (2, 3)
*Romanian: [[oameni]] ''m'' (1), [[popor]] ''f'' (2)
*Russian: [[люди]] ''pl'' (1), [[народ]] ''m'' (2, 3, 4), [[нация]] ''f'' (3), [[национальность]] ''f'' (nationality) (3), [[люд]] ''m obs.'' (1)
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[људи]] ''pl'' (1), [[народ]] ''m'' (3)
*:Latin: [[ljudi]] ''m'' (1), [[narod]] ''m'' (3)
*Spanish: [[gente]] ''f'' (1), [[pueblo]] ''m'' (3)
*Swedish: [[personer]] (1), [[folk]] (2,3), [[folkslag]] (2) 
*Tetum: [[ema]]
*Turkish: [[halk]] [-kı]
*Vietnamese: [[nhân dân]]
*Welsh: [[pobl]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Latin derivations]]
[[Category:Etruscan derivations]]

[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[de:people]]
[[fr:people]]
[[io:People]]
[[it:people]]
[[la:People]]
[[hu:people]]
[[ja:people]]
[[pl:people]]
[[pt:People]]
[[ru:People]]
[[fi:people]]