==English==

===Noun===
'''pepper''' ([[uncountable]] and [[countable]]; ''plural'': '''[[peppers]]''')

# A plant of the family ''Piperaceae''.
# (''[[uncountable]]'') A [[spice]] prepared from the [[ferment]]ed, dried, unripe red berries of this plant.
# A fruit of the [[capsicum]]: red, green, yellow or white, hollow and containing seeds, and in very spicy and mild varieties.

====Synonyms====
*(''fruit of the capsicum''):
**(''spicy''): [[chili]], [[chili pepper]], [[chilli]], [[hot pepper]]
**(''mild'') [[bell pepper]], [[paprika]], [[sweet pepper]]

====Translations====
'''plant'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''spice'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[biber#Bosnian|biber]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[pippuri]]
*French: [[poivre]] {{m}}
*German: [[Pfeffer]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[pepe#Italian|pepe]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[pieprz]] {{m}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[бибер#Serbian|бибер]] {{m}}
*:Latin: [[biber#Serbian|biber]] {{m}}
*Turkish: [[karabiber]]
{{bottom}}

'''fruit of the capsicum'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[paprika#Bosnian|paprika]] {{f}}
*Danish: (''spicy'') [[chili#Danish|chili]], (''mild'') [[paprika#Danish|paprika]]
*Dutch: (''spicy'') [[chilipeper]]
*[[Esperanto]]: (''mild'') [[papriko]]
*Finnish: (''mild'') [[paprika#Finnish|paprika]]
*French: (''spicy'') [[piment]] {{m}}, (''mild'') [[poivron]] {{m}}
*German: (''spicy'') [[Chili#German|Chili]], (''mild'') [[Paprika#German|Paprika]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: (''spicy'') [[peperoncino]] {{m}}, (''mild'') [[peperone]] {{m}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[паприка#Serbian|паприка]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[paprika#Serbian|paprika]] {{f}}
*Spanish: (''spicy'') [[pimiento#Spanish|pimiento]] {{m}}
*Swedish: (''spicy'') [[chilipeppar]], (''mild'') [[paprika#Swedish|paprika]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.

*Slovene: [[poper]] {{m}}

===Transitive verb===
'''to pepper'''

# To add pepper to.
# To strike with something made up of small particles.
# To be covered with lots of (something made up of small things).
#:''After the hailstorm, the beach was '''peppered''' with holes.''
# To add (something) at frequent intervals.
#:''He liked to '''pepper''' his conversation with long words.''

====Translations====

'''add pepper to'''

'''strike with small particles'''
{{top}}
*French: [[poivrer]], [[assaisonner]] de poivre
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[pepare]], [[condire]] con pepe
{{bottom}}

'''be covered with lots of (small things)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''add at frequent intervals'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.

*Slovene: [[popoprati]]

===Related terms===
{{top}}
*[[bell pepper]]
*[[black pepper]]
*[[chili pepper]]
*[[green pepper]]
*[[pepper and salt]]
*[[peppercorn]]
*[[peppermint]]
{{mid}}
*[[pepperpot]]
*[[peppery]]
*[[red pepper]]
*[[Scotch bonnet pepper]]
*[[sweet pepper]]
*[[white pepper]]
*[[yellow pepper]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[salt]]
*[[w:Pepper|Wikipedia article on pepper]]
*[[w:Capsicum|Wikipedia article on peppers (fruits of the capsicum plant)]]

[[fr:pepper]]
[[io:pepper]]
[[it:pepper]]
[[no:pepper]]
[[fi:pepper]]
[[ta:pepper]]
[[zh:pepper]]