==English==
===Etymology 1===
{{L.}} ''[[peregrinari]]'' "to live or travel abroad"

====Pronunciation====
* ''(US)'' /ˈpɛrɪɡrɪˌnet/

====Verb====
{{en-verb|peregrinate|peregrinates|peregrinated|peregrinating}}
# {{intransitive}} To travel from place to place, or from one country to another, especially on foot; hence, to sojourn in foreign countries.
#{{transitive}} To [[travel]] through a specific place.

====Related terms====
* [[pilgrim]]

====Derived terms====
* [[peregrination]]

====Translations====
;to travel from place to place
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[rondtrekken]], [[rondreizen]]
* Latin: [[peregrinari]]
{{mid}}
* Russian: [[путешествовать]]
{{bottom}}

;to travel through a specific place
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[doortrekken]], [[doorzwerven]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{L.}} ''[[peregrinatus]]'', "having travelled abroad", past participle of ''[[peregrinari]]''.

====Adjective====
'''peregrinate'''
# Having traveled; foreign, exotic.

====Translations====
{{top}}
{{mid}}
* Latin: [[peregrinatus]]
{{bottom}}

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1500s=1595|
1800s=1853|
1900s=1992}}
* '''c. 1595,''' [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:Love's Labour's Lost|Love's Labour's Lost]]'' Act V. Scene 1 
*: His humour is lofty, his discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye ambitious, his gait majestical and his general behaviour vain, ridiculous, and thrasonical. He is too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd, as it were, too '''peregrinate''', as I may call it.
* '''1853,''' [[w:Edward Bulwer-Lytton|Edward Bulwer-Lytton]], ''My Novel'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0766107841&id=JIl0TtzfV1AC&pg=PA13&lpg=PA13&dq=peregrinate&sig=s281SrXnzTuDfqRaNHrwolIg0sY]
*: Imagine this figure, grotesque, '''peregrinate''', and to the eye of a peasant certainly diabolical, then perch it on the stile in the midst of those green English fields, and in sight of that primitive English village; there let it sit straddling, its long legs dangling down, a short German pipe emitting clouds from one corner of those sardonic lips, its dark eyes glaring through the spectacles full upon the Parson, yet askant upon Lenny Fairfield.  Lenny Fairfield looked exceedingly frightened.
* '''1992,''' Julia Bolton Holloway, ''The Pilgrim and the Book'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&vid=ISBN0820420905&id=x0wYJrkBc08C&pg=RA2-PA130&lpg=RA2-PA130&dq=peregrinate&sig=kU3-LAXXKwKQb_GW3AnzXq8eryU]
*: Other apprentices on this pilgrimage have been the worldly Squire to the '''peregrinate''' Knight to whom are juxtaposed the '''peregrinate''' Second Nun to the worldly Prioress.