{{see|Permutation}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪʃǝn|-eɪʃǝn]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{mathematics}} A one-to-one mapping from a finite set to itself.
#: ''This permutation takes each element to the one following it, with the last mapped back to the first.''
# {{mathematics}} An ordering of a finite set of distinct elements.
#: ''There are six permutations of three elements, e.g. {abc, acb, bac, bca, cab, cba}.''
# {{music}} Any reordering of an [[ordered set]] of [[pitch class]]es (DeLone et. al. (Eds.), 1975, chap. 6), often the [[transposition]], [[inversion]], [[retrograde]], or [[retrograde-inversion]]

===Translations===
;one-to-one mapping
*Swedish: [[#Swedish|permutation]] {{c}}
;ordering of a set of distinct elements
*Swedish: [[#Swedish|permutation]] {{c}}
;reordering of an ordered set of pitch classes


{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[пермутация]] ''f''
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[permutace]]  ''f''
*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[permutatsioon]]
*{{ttbc|Finnish: [[permutaatio]] (1,2)
*{{ttbc|German}}}}: Permutation ''f''
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[permutatio]]
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[permutácia]]  ''f''

===See also===
*[[w:Permutation|Wikipedia article on Permutation]]

===References===
*DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465, Ch. 6.

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''permutation''' {{c}}
{{sv-noun-reg-er}}

#[[#English|permutation]]; one-to-one mapping of a finite set to itself
#permutation; an ordering of a finite set of distinct elements

[[fr:permutation]]
[[io:permutation]]
[[pl:permutation]]
[[ru:permutation]]
[[sv:permutation]]
[[vi:permutation]]
[[zh:permutation]]