{{rfd}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
From Middle English '''[[percynne]]''' < Middle French '''[[persien]]''' < Latin '''*[[Persianus]]''' < Latin '''[[Persia]]''' < Greek '''[[Περσίς]]''' < Old Persian '''[[Pārsa]]'''.

===Noun===
'''Persian''' (''plural:'' [[Persians]])

#A person from Persia (Iran).
#A group of very similar languages spoken primarily in Iran, Afghanistan, and Tajikistan, Persian belongs to the Southwestern branch of the [[Iranian]] subfamily of the Indo-Iranian family of languages. Indo-Iranian itself is a subfamily of the Indo-European language family. Closely related languages include [[Kurdish]], [[Pashto]], and [[Avestan]].
#A [[cinnamon]] [[bun]] coated with [[pink]] [[icing]] on top (local [[colloquialism]], ''[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thunder_Bay%2C_Ontario Thunder Bay, Ontario], [[Canada]]'')
#A breed of [[cat]].

====Usage====
*Persian is the name applied to the official language of Iran. This language is also spoken in Tajikistan and some parts of Afghanistan. Some people use the local name "Farsi" in English to refer to any of the Persian dialects. Afghanis usually call it as [[Dari]], and the version spoken in Tajikistan is called Tajik Persian or simply Tajik.

====Translations====
'''Persian language'''
{{Persian-Farsi}}

===Adjective===
'''Persian'''

# Describes a person, place or object referring to Persia or Persians.

====See also====
*[[Iranian]] 
*[[Tajiki-Persian]]
*[[Dari-Persian]]
*[[Farsi]]

====Translations====

*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[فارسي]]}} (farsi)
*[[Bulgarian]]: [[персиец]] (persíets) {{m}}, [[персийка]] (persíjka) {{f}} (1)
*Danish: [[persianer]] (2)
*Dutch: [[Pers]] {{m}}, [[Perzische]] {{f}} (1); [[Perzisch]] {{n}} (2)
*Chinese: [[波斯人]] (bōsīrén) (1)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[perso]] (2)
*Finnish: [[persialainen]] (1); [[persia]] (3)
*French: [[Persan]] {{m}} (1,2)
*German: [[Perser]] {{m}}, [[Perserin]] {{f}} (1)
*Greek: [[Πέρσης]] {{m}}, [[Περσίδα]] {{f}} (1)
*[[Gujarati]]: [[ફારસી]] (pharsī) (1)
*[[Hindi]]: [[फ़ारसी]] (pharsī) (1)
*Hungarian: [[perzsiai]] (2)
*Indonesian: [[farsi]] (2)
*Italian: [[persiano]] (2), [[persico]]
*Korean: [[페르샤의]] (pereusya-ui) (2)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[فارسی]]}} (fârsi), {{FAchar|[[پارسی]]}} (pârsi)
*Polish: [[perski]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[persa]] ''m/f'' (2)
*Russian: [[персидский]] (persídskij) (2)
*[[Slovak]]: [[peržan#Slovak|peržan]] {{m}}, [[peržanka]] {{f}} (1); [[peržština]] {{f}} (2)
*Spanish: [[persa]] ''m/f'' (2)
*[[Swahili]]: [[kiajemi]] (2)
*Swedish: [[perser]] {{m}} {{p}}, [[persiska]] {{f}} (1,2)
*Turkish: [[farsça]] (2)
*[[Urdu]]: {{FAchar|[[فارسي]]}} (fārsī)

===Adjective===
'''Persian'''

# of, from, or pertaining to Persia.
# of or pertaining to the Persian people.
# of or pertaining to the Persian language.

====Synonyms====
*[[Iranian]] (2)

====Translations====
*[[Azeri]]: [[fars]]
*Bulgarian: [[персийски]] (persíjski) {{m}} & {{p}}
*Chinese: [[波斯]]的 (bōsī de) (1), [[波斯人]]的 (bōsīrén de) (2); [[波斯语]]的 (bōsīyǔ de) (3)
*Danish: [[persisk]]
*Dutch: [[Perzisch]], [[Perzische]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[persa]]
*Finnish: [[persialainen]]
*French: [[persan]]
*German: [[persisch]]
*Greek: [[περσικός]] (persikós)
*Japanese: [[ペルシア]] (pérushia) (1), [[ペルシアの]] (pérushia no) (2), [[ペルシア人]] (pérushia-jin) (3)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[farisî]]
*Norwegian: [[persisk]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[ایرانی]]}} (irâni), {{FAchar|[[فارسی]]}} (fârsi)
*Polish: [[perski]]
*Portuguese: [[persa]] ''m/f''
*Russian: [[персидский]] (persídskij)
*Slovak: [[perzský]] {{m}}, [[perzská]] {{f}}, [[perzské]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[persa]] ''m/f''
*Swedish: [[persisk]], [[persiska]]
*[[Tatar]]: [[farsí]]
*Turkish: [[İran]]

[[Category:Cats]]
[[Category:Languages]]