==English==

===Pronunciation===
*(''noun''):
**(''[[RP]]''): {{IPA|/ˈpɜːvɜːt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"p3:v3:t/}}
**(''US''): {{IPA|/ˈpɝvɝt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"p3`v3`t/}}
*(''verb''):
**(''RP''): {{IPA|/pəˈvɜːt/}}, {{SAMPA|/p@"v3:t/}}
**(''US''): {{IPA|/pɚˈvɝt/}}, {{SAMPA|/p@`"v3`t/}}
[[Category:English heteronyms]]
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)t|-ɜː(r)t]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

per‧vert  /v. pərˈvɜrt; n. ˈpɜrvərt/ Pronunciation Key - Show Spelled Pronunciation[v. per-vurt; n. pur-vert] Pronunciation Key - Show IPA Pronunciation 

–verb (used with object) 1. to affect with perversion.  
2. to lead astray morally.  
3. to turn away from the right course.  
4. to lead into mental error or false judgment.  
5. to turn to an improper use; misapply.  
6. to misconstrue or misinterpret, esp. deliberately; distort: to pervert someone's statement.  
7. to bring to a less excellent state; vitiate; debase.  
8. Pathology. to change to what is unnatural or abnormal.  
9. to convert or persuade to a religious belief regarded as false or wrong.  
–noun 10. a person who practices sexual perversion.  
11. Pathology. a person affected with perversion.  
12. a person who has been perverted, esp. to a religious belief regarded as erroneous.  


====Usage notes====
*In contemporary usage, '''pervert''' is usually understood to refer to a [[sexual]]ly perverted person. Traditionally the word was mainly associated with persons of [[false]] [[religious]] [[belief]]s.

====Synonyms====
*(''sexually perverted person''): [[deviant]], [[perv]] (''slang'')

====Antonyms====
*[[convert]] (''religious'')

====Translations====
'''one who has turned to error'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[отступник]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''sexually perverted person'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[perverssi]], [[pervo]] (''colloquial'')
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[извращенец]] {{m}}, {{slang}} [[перверт]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[堕落者]] (duò luò zhě)
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Perverser]] ''m''

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#{{transitive}} To turn another way; to divert.
#{{transitive}} To turn from truth, rectitude, or propriety; to divert from a right use, end, or way; to lead astray; to corrupt
#:''pervert the course of justice''
#To misapply; to misinterpret designedly.
#:''pervert one's words''
#{{intransitive}} To become perverted; to take the wrong course.

====Synonyms====
*(''turn another way''): [[divert]], [[steer]], [[veer]]
*(''turn from truth; lead astray''): [[corrupt]], [[lead astray]]
*(''misapply, misinterpret designedly''): [[misapply]], [[misuse]]
*(''take the wrong course''):

====Translations====
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[извращать]], {{intransitive}} [[извращаться]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[perverse]]
*[[perversion]]

[[fr:pervert]]
[[io:pervert]]
[[hu:pervert]]
[[ru:pervert]]
[[vi:pervert]]