Samantha Park 9-12-06 Military style detention centers shouldn ’ t get the boot. They shouldn ’ t be shut down because it will keep good students in schools safe and get the other kids away. If the parents are bad, this gives kids a chance to get away and have better role models. It gives a kid a chance to learn how to act better. According to the article it states, “ The tightly controlled environment provides needed structure and discipline for at risk youth. ” The government shouldn ’ t close them because they give these kids a second chance while keeping good students safe. It is important to keep good students safe and away from the influence of the bad students. It keeps the good students good. It helps the good students keep their good grades. It helps the students work with less disruptions. The teachers who aren ’ t trained for the bad students don ’ t have to always pay attention to them. If a kids is removed from his home and school, it makes him realize that he did something wrong. It is also important to make sure kids grow up correctly. Some parents don ’ t know how to discipline or enforce rules but the people there know how to do that. Sometimes a parent will sell drugs and the kid might pick up on that. The parents could be in jail and the kid will grow up without a parent and have to grow up with someone else. Their time is so structured that they don ’ t have time to learn the bad habits of the other kids. The programs they have there allow the kids to develop physically and that is something they can be proud of. Kids should be raised to act better. They should be raised to not do drugs or steal. They also should be raised to not deal drugs or any other illegal activity. Kids should learn to follow directions the first time. They shouldn ’ t talk back or say things like “ You ’ re not my Mom, so I don ’ t have to listen to you. ” You should be raised to learn respect and self control, because if you don ’ t learn that at home where else will you learn it? In conclusion Military style detention centers should be kept open. It helps the good kids keep their good grades. Whenever a bad kid does something wrong it makes him realize what he did wrong. The boot camp provides a positive role model if the kid ’ s parents are in jail and have no role model. They teach children discipline and responsibility. They also teach them to listen the first time and not talk back.