==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Proper noun===
'''The Philippines''' {{p}}

# Country in Southeast Asia. Official name: Republic of the Philippines.

====History====

The Philippines is the third largest English speaking country in the world. It has a rich history combining Asian, European, and American influences. Prior to Spanish colonization in 1521, the Filipinos had a rich culture and were trading with the Chinese and the Japanese. Spain's colonization brought about the construction of Intramuros in 1571, a "Walled City" comprised of European buildings and churches, replicated in different parts of the archipelago. In 1898, after 350 years and 300 rebellions, the Filipinos, with leaders like Jose Rizal and Emilio Aguinaldo, succeeded in winning their independence.

In 1898, the Philippines became the first and only colony of the United States. Following the Philippine-American War, the United States brought widespread education to the islands. Filipinos fought alongside Americans during World War II, particularly at the famous battle of Bataan and Corregidor which delayed Japanese advance and saved Australia. They then waged a guerilla war against the Japanese from 1941 to 1945. The Philippines regained its independence in 1946.

Filipinos are a freedom-loving people, having waged two peaceful, bloodless revolutions against what were perceived as corrupt regimes. The Philippines is a vibrant democracy, as evidenced by 12 English national newspapers, 7 national television stations, hundreds of cable TV stations, and 2,000 radio stations.

Filipinos are a fun-loving people. Throughout the islands, there are fiestas celebrated everyday and foreign guests are always welcome to their homes.

====General Information====

The Philippines is made up of 7,107 islands covering a land area of 115,739 sq. m. (299,764 sq. km.). Main island groups are Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. Capital is Manila. Time Zone is GMT + 8 hours.

*[[CLIMATE]]
March to May is hot and dry. June to October is rainy, November to February is cool. Average temperatures: 78°F / 25°C to 90°F / 32°C; humidity is 77%.

*[[POPULATION]]
There are a total of 76.5 million Filipinos as of the latest national census in May, 2000. Population growth is estimated at 2.36 percent annually. Luzon, the largest island group, accounts for more than half of the entire population.

*[[LANGUAGES]]
Two official languages --- Filipino and English. Filipino which is based on Tagalog, is the national language. English is also widely used and is the medium of instruction in higher education. 

Eight (8) major dialects spoken by majority of the Filipinos: Tagalog, Cebuano, Ilocano, Hiligaynon or Ilonggo, Bicol, Waray, Pampango, and Pangasinense. 

Filipino is that native language which is used nationally as the language of communication among ethnic groups. Like any living language, Filipino is in a process of development through loans from Philippine languages and non-native languages for various situations, among speakers of different social backgrounds, and for topics for conversation and scholarly discourse. There are about 76 to 78 major language groups, with more than 500 dialects. 

*[[RELIGIONS]]
Some 83% of Filipinos are Catholic. About 5% are Moslem. The rest are made up of smaller Christian denominations and Buddhist.

*[[UNIT OF MEASURE]]
The Metric System is used in most trade and legal transactions.

*[[ELECTRICITY]]
220 volts a/c is the common standard. 110 volts a/c is also used, especially in major hotels.

*[[CURRENCY]]
The Philippines' monetary unit is the peso, divided into 100 centavos. Foreign currency may be exchanged at any hotels, most large department stores, banks, and authorized money changing shops accredited by the Central Bank of the Philippines. International credit cards such as Visa, Diners Club, Bank Americard, Master Card, and American Express are accepted in major establishments. 

Source: Ryan Rayond

====Synonyms====
*[[Pilipinas]]
*[[Pinas]]

====Related terms====
*[[Filipino]]
*[[Filipina]]
*[[Filipinas]]
*[[Phils]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[الفلبين]]}} (al-filibí:n)
*Bosnian: [[Filipini]] ''m pl''
*Breton: [[Filipinez]]
*Chinese: [[菲律宾]] / [[菲律賓]] (Fēilùbīn)
*Catalan: [[Filipines]] ''f pl''
*Danish: [[Filippinerne]]
*Dutch: [[Filipijnen]] {{p}}
*Esperanto: [[Filipinoj]] {{p}}
*Filipino: [[Pilipinas]], [[Filipinas]]
*Finnish: [[Filippiinit]] {{p}}
*French: Philippines
*German: [[Philippinen]] {{p}}
*Greek: [[Φιλιππίνες]] (Philippínes)
*Hebrew: [[הפיליפינים]] (ha-Filipinim) {{p}}
*Hungarian: [[Fülöp-szigetek]] {{p}}
{{mid}}
*Indonesian: [[Filipina]]
*Interlingua: [[Philippinas]]
*Italian: [[Filippine]] ''f pl''
*Japanese: [[フィリピン]] (Firipin)
*Latin:[[Philippinae]] ''f pl''
*Malay: [[Filipina]]
*Norwegian: [[Filippinene]]
*Polish: [[Filipiny]]
*Portuguese: [[Filipinas]] ''f pl''
*Romanian: [[Filipine]] ''f pl''
*Russian: [[Филиппины]] (Filippíny) ''f pl''
*Slovak: [[Filipíny]] ''f pl''
*Slovene: [[Filipini]] ''m pl''
*Spanish: [[Filipinas]] ''f pl''
*Swedish: [[Filippinerna]]
*Tagalog: [[Pilipinas]]
*Turkish: [[Filipinler]] {{p}}
{{bottom}}

===External links===
*[[Wiktionary:Filipino_index|Filipino Language Index]]

===See also===
*[[Countries of the world]]

==French==
===Proper noun===
'''Philippines'''
#The Philippines

[[Category:Countries]]
[[Category:fr:Countries]]

[[bg:Philippines]]
[[et:Philippines]]
[[fr:Philippines]]
[[ja:Philippines]]
[[sv:Philippines]]
[[zh:Philippines]]