==English==
===Etymology===
Respelling of '''fishing''' (in the sense of "trying to find"), presumably intended to assimilate it to [[phone]];<!--I presume -- [[User:Paul G|Paul G]] 09:36, 16 Apr 2004 (UTC) --> 

===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /ˈfɪʃɪŋ/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>"fISIN</tt>/
:'''Homophones:''' [[fishing]]

===Verbal noun===
'''phishing''' (''[[uncountable]]'')
{{wikipedia}}

#(''computing'') The act of sending [[email]] that falsely claims to be from a legitimate organisation.  This is usually combined with a threat or request for information: for example, that an account will close, a balance is due, or information is missing from an account.  The email will ask the recipient to supply confidential information, such as bank account details, [[PIN]]s or [[password]]s; these details are then used by the owners of the website to conduct [[fraud]].

====Synonyms====
*[[spoofing]]
<!-- Encyclopedic info - this does not belong on a Wiktionary page
===Notes===
The term ''phishing'' comes from the fact that Internet scammers are using increasingly sophisticated lures as they "fish" for users' financial information and password data. The most common ploy is to copy the Web page code from a major site — such as AOL — and use that code to set up a replica page that appears to be part of the company's site. ''(This is why phishing is also called [[spoofing]].)'' A fake e-mail is sent out with a link to this page, which solicits the user's credit card data or password. When the form is submitted, it sends the data to the scammer while leaving the user on the company's site so they don't suspect a thing.
-->

====Related terms====
*[[phish]]
*[[phisher]]

===See also===


<!-- This advice is useful but does not add to the definition and so does not belong in Wiktionary, in my opinion.  I am replacing it with a link to the Wikipedia page, which includes similar information -- [[User:Paul G|Paul G]] 09:36, 16 Apr 2004 (UTC)

Phishing is the term coined by hackers who imitate legitimate companies in e-mails to entice people to share passwords or credit-card numbers. Recent victims include Charlotte's Bank of America, Best Buy and eBay, where people were directed to Web pages that looked nearly identical to the companies' sites.

These attacks have been documented against many major corporations.  It's better to err on the side of caution.  Don't trust websites and phone numbers provided in the email or webpage, as they can easily be [[spoofed]].  These emails can be the result of [[criminal]]s and [[virus]]es.

Find a previous printed statement, or contact by alternate means.  To confirm the details in the email, and ask someone in person, or over the phone (use a well established contact number).  Research the company to see what their policies and guidelines are regarding notices of that nature.  Forward a copy (if they agree) to their customer service division with complete headers.  You can also search the internet for keywords in the email to see if others have reported it.
-->

[[et:Phishing]]