==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:General American|GenAm]]
**{{IPA|/pjænoʊ/}}
**{{SAMPA|/pj{noU/}}

===Etymology===
Short form of ''[[pianoforte]]'', from Italian ''[[piano#Italian|piano]]'' (soft) + ''[[forte]]'' (strong). So named because older keyboard instruments, notably the [[harpsichord]] and the [[clavier]], could not produce varied volumes.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#A [[keyboard]] [[musical]] [[instrument]], usually ranging over seven [[octave]]s, with white and black keys, played by pressing these keys, causing [[hammer]]s to strike [[string]]s.

====Usage note====
''Piano'' is now the usual term for the musical instrument. ''Pianoforte'' is old-fashioned.

====Synonyms====
*[[pianoforte]] (''dated'')

====Derived terms====
*[[electric piano]]
*[[grand piano]]
*[[pianola]]
*[[pianist]]
*[[piano player]]
*[[player piano]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[klavir]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[钢琴]]/[[鋼琴]] (gāng qín)
*Czech: [[piáno]] ''n''
*Danish: [[klaver]] ''n''
*Dutch: piano ''m''
*Finnish: piano
*French: piano ''m'' (''on this page'')
*German: [[Klavier]] ''n'', [[Piano]] ''n''
*Greek: [[πιάνο]] [ˈpçano̞] ''n'', [[κλειδοκύμβαλο]] [kliðo̞ˈciɱvaˌlo̞] ''n''
*Hebrew: [[פסנתר]] (psanter, after an unknown musical instrument mentioned in the [[w:book of Daniel|book of Daniel]])
*Hungarian: [[zongora]]
*Icelandic: [[píanó]] {{n}}
*Irish: [[pianó]]
*Italian: [[pianoforte]] ''m'', piano ''m''
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[ピアノ]] (piano)
*Korean: [[피아노]] (piano)
*Latvian: [[klavieres]]
*Norwegian: [[#Norwegian|piano]]
*Polish: [[pianino]]
*Romanian: [[pian]] ''n''
*Russian: [[пианино]] (pianino), [[рояль]] (royal')
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[клавир]] ''m''
*:Latin: [[klavir#Serbian|klavir]] ''m''
*Slovak: [[klavír#Slovak|klavír]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[piano]]
*Turkish: [[piyano]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[cembalo]]
*[[clavier]]
*[[harpsichord]]
*[[organ]]
*[[synthesizer]], [[synth]]

===Adjective===
'''piano'''

#(''music'') [[soft|Soft]]. Used as a [[w:Dynamics (music)|dynamic]] directive in [[w:sheet music|sheet music]] in its abbreviated form, ''{p.}'', to indicate lowering the volume of the music. In the pianoforte this is done by pressing the instrument's keys more lightly. 

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[piano#German|piano]]
*Icelandic: [[veikt]] {{n}}, [[veikur]] {{m}}, [[veik]] {{f}}
:(in music, it is most often used in neutral, since the word song ([[lag]]) is neutral.)
::E.g. Spilaðu lagið veikt.
::E.g. Play the song more piano.
{{mid}}
*Slovak: [[piano#Slovak|piano]]
{{bottom}}

===Related Terms===
*[[mezzo-piano]]
*[[mp]]
*[[pianissimo]]

[[Category:Musical instruments]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''piano''' ''m''

#piano
----

==Finnish==

([[Wiktionary:Finnish_index_p|index P]])

===Noun===
'''piano'''

#piano

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/pja.nɔ/}}
*{{SAMPA|/pja.nO/}}

===Noun===
'''piano'''
*English: piano (''on this page'')
----

==Italian==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[planus]]''

===Adjective===
'''piano'''

# [[plane]]
# [[plain]], soft
# [[penultimate]] accented

===Noun===
'''piano''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''piani''')

#[[plane]]
#[[floor]], [[storey]] (''British''), [[story]] (''US: of a building'')
#[[plan]]
#[[piano]] (''musical instrument'')

====Synonyms====
*[[progetto]]
*[[proposito]]

===Related terms===
*[[piana]]
*[[pianificazione]]
*[[pianista]]
*[[pianula]]

----
==Japanese==	
===Noun===
{{PAGENAME}} ([[ピアノ]])
# piano


[[Category:Romaji]]
----
==Norwegian==

===Noun===
{{no-noun-n4}}
#[[#English|piano]]

----
==Slovak==

===Adverb===
:'''piano'''
# musical directive to play softly

[[ca:piano]]
[[de:piano]]
[[el:piano]]
[[es:piano]]
[[fr:piano]]
[[ko:piano]]
[[io:piano]]
[[id:piano]]
[[it:piano]]
[[ku:piano]]
[[hu:piano]]
[[nl:piano]]
[[ja:piano]]
[[pl:piano]]
[[ru:piano]]
[[fi:piano]]
[[sv:piano]]
[[vi:piano]]
[[zh:piano]]