==English==

''Most definitions taken from the public domain 1913 US Webster’s Unabridged dictionary''

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-pile.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪl|-aɪl]]

===Noun===
'''pile'''

#A hair; hence, the fiber of wool, cotton, and the like; also, the nap when thick or heavy, as of carpeting and velvet.
#:''Velvet soft, or plush with shaggy pile.'' &mdash;Cowper
#A covering of hair or fur.
#A large [[stake]], or piece of [[timber]], steel section pointed and driven into the earth or drilled and cast reinforced concrete, as at the bottom of a river, or in a harbor where the ground is soft, for the support of a building, a [[pier]], or other [[superstructure]], or to form a [[cofferdam]], etc.
#The head of an [[arrow]] or [[spear]].
#One of the ordinaries or subordinaries having the form of a wedge, usually placed palewise, with the broadest end uppermost.
#A mass of things heaped together; a heap; as, a pile of stones; a pile of wood.
#A mass formed in layers; as, a pile of shot.
#A funeral pile; a [[pyre]].
#A large building, or mass of buildings.
#A bundle of pieces of wrought iron to be worked over into bars or other shapes by rolling or hammering at a welding heat; a [[fagot]].
#A vertical series of alternate disks of two dissimilar metals, as copper and zinc, laid up with disks of cloth or paper moistened with acid water between them, for producing a current of electricity; &mdash; commonly called Volta’s pile, voltaic pile, or galvanic pile.
#The [[reverse]] (or tails) of a coin. (Obs)
#A hemorrhoid (usually it is in plural)

====Translations====
*French: [[tas]] {{m}} (6)
*Spanish: [[pila]] {{f}} (6,11)

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|pil|ing}}
#To drive piles into; to fill with piles; to strengthen with piles.
#To lay or throw into a pile or heap; to heap up; to collect into a mass; to accumulate; to amass; &mdash; often with up; as, to pile up wood.
#To cover with heaps; or in great abundance; to fill or overfill; to load.
#To add something to a great number.
#(of vehicles) To create a hold up.
#A structure supported on piled foundations

===Related terms===
*[[funeral pile]]
*[[pile bridge]]
*[[pile driver]]
*[[pile cap]]
*[[pavilion]]
*[[reverse]]

----

==Bosnian==

===Noun===
'''pile''' {{n}}

#[[chick]]

----

==Croatian==

===Noun===
'''pile''' {{n}}

#[[chick]]

----

==French==
===Etymology===
Latin [[pila]]

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /pil/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /pil/

===Noun===
'''pile'''

# [[heap]]
# [[pillar]]
# [[battery]]

----

==Serbian==

===Noun===
'''pile''' {{n}}

#[[chick]]

====Cyrillic spelling====
*[[пиле#Serbian|пиле]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:Bosnian nouns]]
[[Category:Croatian nouns]]
[[Category:French nouns]]
[[Category:Serbian nouns]]

[[bg:pile]]
[[fr:pile]]
[[io:pile]]
[[it:pile]]
[[ku:pile]]
[[fi:pile]]
[[ta:pile]]
[[vi:pile]]
[[zh:pile]]