''See also'' '''[[PIN]]''', '''[[Pin]]'''
==English==
=== Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: pĭn
*[[IPA]]: /pɪn/
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>pIn</tt>/

=== Noun ===
{{wikipedia}}
'''pin''' (''plural'' '''[[pins]]''')

#A small device, made (usually) of drawn-out steel wire with one end sharpened and the other [[flatten]]ed or rounded into a head, used for [[fasten]]ing.
#A small [[nail]] with a head and a sharp point.
#A [[cylinder]] of wood or metal used to fasten or as a bearing between two parts.
#A wooden [[skittle]] used as a target in a game of bowling.
#(''in plural'' '''pins'''; ''informal'') A leg.
#:''I'm not so good on my pins these days''
#Any of the individual connecting elements of a [[multi-pole]] electrical [[connector]].
#:''The UK standard connector for domestic mains electricity is has three pins.''
#A piece of [[jewellery]] that is attached to clothing with a pin.
#(''US'') A simple accessory that can be attached to clothing with a pin or fastener, often round and bearing a design, [[logo]] or message, and used for decoration, identification or to show political affiliation, etc.
#(''chess'') A scenario in which the movement of a lesser piece that is under attack and moves away would reveal a more valuable piece.

====Synonyms====
*(''small nail''): [[nail]], [[tack]]
*(''cylinder of wood or metal''): [[peg]]
*(''skittle''): [[skittle]]
*(''jewellery fastened with a pin''): [[brooch]]
*(''accessory''): [[badge]]

==== Derived terms ====
*[[belaying pin]]
*[[clothes pin]]
*[[drawing pin]]
*[[gudgeon pin]]
*[[pincushion]]
*[[pinhead]]
*[[pinhole]]
*[[pinner]]
*[[pinprick]]
*[[pins and needles]]
*[[pintle]]
*[[pin-up]], [[pinup]]<!--noun-->
*[[safety pin]]

==== Translations ====

'''small needle with no eye'''
{{top}}
*French: [[épingle]] ''f''
*German: [[Stecknadel]]  ''f'' 
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[spillo]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''small nail'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''cylinder of wood or metal used to fasten or as a bearing between two parts'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''wooden skittle used in bowling'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''informal: leg'''
<!--Note: Put INFORMAL or SLANG translations in this table, where these exist
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''any of the individual connecting elements of a multi-pole electrical connector'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''jewellery attached with a pin'''
''See'' '''[[brooch]]'''

'''US: accessory attached with a pin'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[spilla]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in chess'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Fesselung]] ''f''
*Italian: [[inchiodatura]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[clavado]] ''m'', [[clavada]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into
the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*[[Catalan]]: [[agulla]] de [[cap]] ''f''
*Dutch: pin ''f''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[spinula]]
*Japanese: [[ピン]] (pin)
*Portuguese: [[alfinete]] ''m'', [[tacha]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[alfiler]] ''m''
*Welsh: [[pìn]]

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|pin||}}

#(''often followed by a preposition such as'' '''to''' ''or'' '''on''') To fasten or attach (something) with a pin.
<!--this is "pin on"# to attribute [[blame]]
#: ''...you can't pin that robbery on me!''-->
#(''chess; usually in the [[passive]]'') To cause (a piece) to be in a pin.

====Translations====

'''fasten/attach with a pin'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in chess'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[inchiodare]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[clavar]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[pin down]]
*[[pin on]]
*[[pin the tail on the donkey]]
*[[pin up]]<!--verb-->
*[[underpin]]

----
==Dutch==
=== Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /pɪn/

=== Noun ===
'''pin''' ''m''

#[[peg]], pin

----
==French==
=== Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /pɜ̃/

==== Homophones ====
*[[pain#French|pain]]

===Noun===
'''pin''' ''m'' (''plural'' '''pins''')

#[[pine]], [[pine tree]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[io:Pin]]
[[it:pin]]
[[pl:Pin]]