==English==

===Etymology===
[[Onomatopoeic]]

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪŋ|-ɪŋ]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A high-pitched, short and somewhat sharp sound.
#: ''My car used to make an odd '''ping''', but after the last oil change it went away.''
# {{italbrac|submarine navigation}} A pulse of high-pitched or ultrasonic sound whose echoes provide information about nearby objects and vessels.
#: ''The submarine sent out a '''ping''' and got an echo from a battleship.''
# {{networking}} A packet which a remote [[host]] is expected to echo, thus indicating its presence.
#: ''The network is overloaded from all the '''pings''' going out.''
# {{cattag|txt|internet}} An [[email]] or other message sent requesting acknowledgement.
#: ''I sent a '''ping''' to the insurance company to see if they received our claim.''

====See also====
*[[beep]]
*[[peep]]
*[[ping pong]]
*[[ACK]]
*[[heartbeat]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pings|pinging|pinged}}

# To make a high-pitched, short and somewhat sharp sound.
#: ''My car was '''pinging''' until my last oil change.''
# {{italbrac|submarine navigation}} To emit a signal and then listen for its echo in order to detect objects.
# {{networking}} To send a packet in order to determine whether a [[host]] is present, particularly by use of the ping utility.
#: ''I'm '''pinging''' kremvax.''
#: ''The server '''pings''' its affiliates periodically.''
# {{networking}} To ping and receive an acknowledgement.
#: ''I can't '''ping''' kremvax.''
# To send an email or other message to someone in hopes of eliciting a response.
#: ''I'll '''ping''' the insurance company again to see if they've received our claim.''
# {{colloquial}} To [[flick]].
#: ''I '''pinged''' the crumb off the table with my finger.''
# {{cattag|colloquial|sports|intransitive}} To [[bounce]].
#: ''The ball '''pinged''' off the wall and came hurtling back.''
# {{cattag|colloquial|sports|transitive}} To cause something to bounce.
#: "'''''Ping''' the ball!''"

====See also====
*[[poll]] ''networking''

[[Category:Onomatopoeia]]

[[fi:ping]]
[[vi:ping]]