{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-uk-pink.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

===Etymology 1===
Precise origin uncertain; perhaps shortened from ''[[pink-eye]]'' (compare French ''[[œillet]]'').

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Any of various [[flowers]] in the genus ''[[Dianthus]]'', sometimes called [[carnation]]s.
#: ''This garden in particular has a beatiful bed of '''pinks'''.''
# {{archaic}} [[excellence]], [[perfection]]
#: ''Your hat, madam, is the very '''pink''' of fashion.''
# [[hunting pink]]; [[scarlet]]
#*'''1986''': it is interesting to note the curious legend that the '''pink''' of the hunting field is not due to any optical advantage but to an entirely different reason. Formerly no man might hunt even on his own estate until he had a licence of free warren from the Crown. Consequently he merely hunted by the pleasure of the crown, taking part in what was an exclusively Royal sport by Royal permission. And for this Royal sport, he wore the Kings livery of scarlet. — Michael J O'Shea, ''James Joyce and Heraldry'' (SUNY 1986, p. 69)
# A colour formed by mixing red and [[white]]; pale red.
#: ''My new dress is a wonderful shade of '''pink'''.''
# Any pink object.
#: ''Oh dear, he's left himself snookered behind the '''pink'''.
# {{colloquial}} The European minnow.
# {{colloquial}} A young salmon.

=====Translations=====
'''flower'''<!--NOTE: the flower "pink" is not the same as the flower "rose" - take care when adding translations!-->
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[neilikka]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[nelikk]]
*Romanian: [[garoafă]]
{{bottom}}

'''pale red colour'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[roze#Dutch|roze]], [[roos#Dutch|roos]]
*German: [[Rosa#German|Rosa]]
*Finnish: [[vaaleanpunainen]]<!--Note: "pinkki" is a reddish pink, like shocking pink-->
*French: [[rose#French|rose]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[ροζ]] (roz) {{n}} (the {{n}} noun [[χρώμα]] implied)
*Hebrew: [[ורוד]]
*Hungarian: [[rózsaszín]]
*Indonesian: [[merah jambu]]
*[[Irish]]: [[bándearg]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[rosa#Italian|rosa]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[ピンク色]]の (pinkiro no)
*Norwegian: [[rosa#Norwegian|rosa]]
*Polish: [[róż]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[rosa]]
*Romanian: [[roz]]
*Spanish: [[rosa]]
*[[Scots Gaelic]]: [[bàn-dhearg]]
*Spanish: [[rosado]], [[rosa#Spanish|rosa]]
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

''Note: the flower is NOT the same as a rose - ensure that the translations for the flower name are correct''

*{{ttbc|Bosnian}}: ružičasta {{f}}, rozna {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[rosa#Catalan|rosa]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[rozo]]
*{{ttbc|Galician}}: [[rosa#Galician|rosa]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[rosa#German|rosa]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[rosate]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[bán dearg]]
*{{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[rožinis]] [[rožinė]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[pembe]]
*{{ttbc|Volapük}}: [[redülik]]

====Adjective====
{{en-adj-er}}

# Having a colour between [[red]] and [[white]]; pale red.
#:<table><tr><td>pink colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="pink" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
# Of a fox-hunter's jacket: [[scarlet]].
# Having [[conjunctivitis]].
# Having liberal ideas.
#: ''I don't hold with [[namby-pamby]] '''pink''' liberalism! Bring back the rope, castrate the queers and flog the rest of em.''

=====Derived terms=====
{{top3}}
*[[clove pink]]
*[[fire pink]]
*[[hunting pink]]
*[[in the pink]]
*[[moss pink]]
*[[pink bits]]
*[[pink-collar]]
*[[pink dollar]]
{{mid3}}
*[[pink elephants]]
*[[pink gin]]
*[[pink lady]]
*[[pink pound]]
*[[pink salmon]]
*[[pink slip]]
*[[pinkie]]
*[[pinking shears]]
{{mid3}}
*[[pinko]]
*[[pinky]]
*[[salmon pink]]
*[[sea pink]]
*[[shell pink]]
*[[shocking pink]]
*[[swamp pink]]
*[[wild pink]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations=====
'''colored/coloured between red and white'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[angelierroos]] [[ligroos]] [[pienk]]
*Armenian: [[վարդագույն]]
*Bosnian: [[ružičasta/roza]] {{f}}, [[ružičast(i)/rozi]] {{m}}, [[ružičasto/roze]] {{n}}
*Chinese: [[粉红色]] (fěn hóng sè)
*Danish: [[lyserød]]
*Dutch: [[roze]], [[rooskleurig]], [[rooskleurige]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[rozkolora]]
*Finnish: [[vaaleanpunainen]], [[pinkki]] {{colloquial}}
*French: [[rose#French|rose]] ''m and f''
*German: pink, [[rosa]]
*Greek: [[ροζ]] ''m, f and plural''
*Hebrew: [[ורוד]] (''va-ROD'')
{{mid}}
*Ido : [[roza]]
*Indonesian: pink / [[merah]] [[muda]]
*Irish: [[bándearg]]
*Japanese: [[ピンク]] (pinku), [[桃色]] (ももいろ, momoiro)
*Javanese: [[jambon]]
*Maltese: [[roża]]
*Norwegian: [[rosa]]
*Polish: [[różowy]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[cor de rosa]]
*Russian: [[розавый]]
*[[Scots Gaelic]]: [[bàn-dhearg]]
*Swedish: [[skär]], [[rosa]]
*Welsh: [[pinc]]
{{bottom}}

'''having conjunctivitis'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{D.}} {{ME.}} pin(c)ke.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A narrow boat.

===Etymology 3===
Probably from Low Dutch or Low German; compare Low German [[pinken]] ‘hit, peck’.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To [[decorate]] a piece of [[clothing]] or [[fabric]] by adding [[holes]] or by [[scallop]]ing the [[fringe]].
# To prick with a sword.

===See also===
*[[fuchsia]]
*[[magenta]]
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

===Etymology 4===
[[onomatopoeic]]

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{italbrac|of a motor car}} to emit a high "pinking" noise, usually as a result of ill-set [[spark plug]]s

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''pink''' {{m}}

# [[pinkie]] (''little finger'')
# One-year-old [[calf]]
# Kind of fishing [[boat]]<!--What is the English translation?-->

====Derived terms====
*[[bij de pinken zijn]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
'''pink''' {{uncountable}}

# [[pee]]

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Dutch nouns]]
[[Category:Reds]]

[[el:pink]]
[[fr:pink]]
[[ko:pink]]
[[it:pink]]
[[hu:pink]]
[[nl:pink]]
[[ja:pink]]
[[pl:pink]]
[[fi:pink]]
[[th:pink]]
[[zh:pink]]