==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-pipe.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪp|-aɪp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A hollow tube that transports water, steam, or other liquid; usualy made of metal, ceramic, wood, or plastic.
# A hollow stem with bowl at one end used for smoking (see also [[water pipe]] or [[bong]])
# A vertical conduit through the Earth's crust below a [[volcano]], through which magma has passed; often filled with volcanic [[breccia]]
# A type of [[pasta]], similar to [[macaroni]]
# Decorative edging stitched to the hems or seams of an object made of fabric (clothing, hats, pillows, curtains, etc.); often a contrasting color
# {{music}} A hollow tube used to produce sound, such as an [[organ pipe]].
# {{music}} A wind instrument making a whistling sound. (see [[pan pipes]], [[bagpipe]], [[boatswain's pipe]])
# {{computing}} The [[ASCII]] character at position 124 (decimal), 7C (hex), 01111100 (binary): " '''|''' "
# {{computing}} In [[Unix]], the pipe character signifies that the output of one program feeds directly as input to another program.
# {{cattag|computing|slang}} A [[data backbone]], or [[broadband]] Internet access (e.g., a "fat pipe" refers to a high-bandwidth connection).
# An English measure of capacity for liquids, containing 126 wine gallons; half a tun.
#* '''1882''': Again, by 28 Hen. VIII, cap. 14, it is re-enacted that the tun of wine should contain 252 gallons, a butt of Malmsey 126 gallons, a pipe 126 gallons, a tercian or puncheon 84 gallons, a hogshead 63 gallons, a tierce 41 gallons, a barrel 31.5 gallons, a rundlet 18.5 gallons. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', p. 205.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[Pijp]]
*German: [[Rohr]] {{n}} (1), [[Pfeife ]] {{f}} (2,3), [[Flöte]] {{f}} (7)
*Hungarian: [[pipa]]
*Italian: [[condotto]] {{m}} (1)
*Latvian [[caurule]] {{f}} (1)
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[rura]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[cano]] {{m}} (1), [[cachimbo]] {{m}} (2), [[tubo]] {{m}} (1, 3), [[gaita-de-fole]] {{f}} (7)
*Spanish: [[tuberia]] {{f}} (1), [[pipa]] {{f}} (2)
*[[Telugu]]: [[గొట్టము]] (goTTamu)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pip|ing}}

# To convey or transport something by means of pipes.
# To install or configure pipes.
# To play music on a pipee instrument, such as a [[bagpipe]].
# ''(Nautical)'' To signal or order by a note pattern on a bosun's pipe.
# To decorate a cake using a [[pastry bag]] a flexible bag from which icing is forced through a small nozzle to make various designs

===See also===
*[[brier]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[de:pipe]]
[[el:pipe]]
[[fa:pipe]]
[[fr:pipe]]
[[io:pipe]]
[[id:pipe]]
[[it:pipe]]
[[kk:pipe]]
[[hu:pipe]]
[[ru:pipe]]
[[simple:pipe]]
[[fi:pipe]]
[[ta:pipe]]
[[vi:pipe]]
[[zh:pipe]]