==English==
===Etymology===
Middle English ''[[pissen]]'' < Old French ''[[pissier]]'', probably of echoic origin.

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪs|-ɪs]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# {{historical}} [[Urine]]. 
#:'''1611''' ''Monster, I do smell all horse-'''piss'''; at which my nose is in great indignation.'' — Shakespeare, ''The Tempest'', Act 4, Scene 1.
#(''vulgar slang'') Alcoholic beverage, especially of inferior quality.
#(''vulgar expletive'') Said vehemently, expresses the speaker's displeasure, in the same manner as "shit!' or "crap!"
#:''Piss! I missed the bus!''

====Translations====
'''urine'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[小便]] (xiǎobiàn)
*Dutch: [[pis]]
*Finnish: [[kusi#Finnish|kusi]] (''vulgar''), [[pissa#Finnish|pissa]] (''euphemistic''), [[virtsa]] (''standard'')
*French: [[pisse]] {{f}}
*German: [[Pisse]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[piscio]] {{m}}, [[piscia]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[小便]], [[おしっこ]] (''childish'')
*Korean: [[소변]] (sobyeon)
*Kurdish: [[mîz]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[شاش]]}} (shash), (''children’s speech''): {{FAchar|[[جیش]]}} (jish)
*Portuguese: [[mijo]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[meado]] {{m}}, [[orina]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|piss||}}
# To urinate.
#:'''1601''' ''O Jove, a beastly fault! And then another fault in the semblance of a fowl; think on ’t, Jove; a foul fault! When gods have hot backs, what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a Windsor stag; and the fattest, I think, i’ the forest. Send me a cool rut-time, Jove, or who can blame me '''to piss''' my tallow? Who comes here? my doe?'' — Shakespeare, ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'', Act 5, Scene 5.

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|piss||}}
# to discharge as or with the urine

====Synonyms====
See [[WikiSaurus:urination]]
*(1): [[pee]] (''euphemistic''); [[wee]] (''childish''), [[wee-wee]] (''childish'')
*(2): [[tinkle]] (''childish'')
*(3): slash (''masculine tone, vulgar'')

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Czech: [[čurat]], [[chcát]] (''vulgar'')
*Dutch: [[piesen]] (''vulgar''), [[pissen]] (''vulgar''), [[plassen]] (''euphemistic'')
*Finnish: [[kusta]] (1, ''vulgar''), [[pissata]] (1, ''euphemistic'', ''childish'') 
*French: [[pisser]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[pissen]], [[pinkeln]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[شاشیدن]]}} (shashidan)
*Slovak: [[pišať]], [[cikať]], [[šťať]] (''vulgar'')
*Spanish: [[mear]], [[orinar]], [[empapar]] de [[meado]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[on the piss]]
*[[piss artist]]
*[[pissed]]
*[[pissed off]]
*[[pisshead]]
*[[pissing contest]]
*[[pissy]]
*[[piss off]] (which will include "piss somebody off")
*[[piss-poor]]
*[[piss pot]]
*[[piss-take]]
*[[piss-up]]
*[[piss-weak]]
*[[take the piss]]
*[[weak as piss]]
*[[piss away]]

[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:Vulgarities]]

[[fr:piss]]
[[it:piss]]
[[pt:piss]]
[[fi:piss]]
[[vi:piss]]