==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/'pɪt/}}
*{{audio|en-us-pit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪt|-ɪt]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[pytt]]''

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A hole in the ground.
# A seed inside a fruit; a stone or [[pip]] (Eng.) inside a fruit.
# A [[shell]] in a [[drupe]] containing a seed.
# Area at the auto racetrack used for refueling and repairing the cars during a race
# {{music}} A section of the marching band containing [[mallet]] [[percussion]] instruments and other large percussion instruments too large to march, such as the [[gong]].  Also, the area on the [[sideline]]s where these instruments are placed.

====Translations====
(a hole)
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[gropë]] ''f''
*Dutch: [[kuil]] ''m'', [[put]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[kavo]], [[fosaĵo]]
*Finnish: [[kuoppa]]
*French: [[fosse]] ''f''
*German: [[Grube]] ''f''
*Hawaiian: [[lua]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[gödör]], [[verem]]
*Indonesian: [[lubang]]
*Italian: [[fossa]] ''f''
*Maori: [[rua]]
*Romanian: [[groapă]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[foso]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

(a seed)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[noot#Dutch|noot]]
*Finnish: [[kivi]] (hedelmässä, 1), [[onkalo]] (2), [[varikko]] (3)
{{mid}}
*German: [[Kern]] ''m''
*Telugu: [[గొయ్యి]] (goyyi)
{{bottom}}

(an area for racing cars)
{{top}}
*Dutch: pit
*German: [[Box]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[box]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
* [[pit stop]] (3)

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pit|t|ed}}

# To oppose, as in "to pit one's wits against someone".
# To make pits. 
#:''Exposure to acid rain '''pitted''' the metal.''

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[panna tappelemaan]] (1)

===Anagrams===
*[[tip]]

----

==Catalan==

===Etymology===
Latin [[pectus]]
===Noun===
'''pit'''

# [[breast]]

----

==Dutch==

===Noun===
'''pit'''

# A seed inside a fruit.
# [[Spirit]]
#* 'Hij heeft pit' : He has something going for him.

----

==Irish==

===Noun===
'''pit''' ''f''

# [[vulva]]

----

==Scottish Gaelic==

===Noun===
'''pit''' {{f}}

#The female [[pudenda]]. The [[vulva]]. ''Vulgar'': A [[cunt]].
#* "A phit ghòrach!": "You stupid cunt!"

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]
[[Category:Irish nouns]]

[[Category:Dutch nouns]]
[[Category:Scottish Gaelic nouns]]
[[Category:Scots Gaelic slang]]

[[de:pit]]
[[es:pit]]
[[fr:pit]]
[[io:pit]]
[[it:pit]]
[[ku:pit]]
[[hu:pit]]
[[nl:pit]]
[[fi:pit]]
[[vi:pit]]
[[zh:pit]]