==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===
See [[pitch]] (''to [[throw]], etc.'')

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪtʃə(r)|-ɪtʃə(r)]]

===Noun===
'''pitcher'''
#One who [[pitch]]es anything, as [[hay]], [[quoit]]s, a [[ball]], etc.
#{{baseball}}, the [[player]] who delivers the ball to the [[batter]]. 
#(Obsolete) A sort of [[crowbar]] for [[dig]]ging.

====Translations====
'''the player who throws the ball to the batter'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[lanzador]] {{m}}, [[lanzadora]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===

From [[w:Old English language|Old English]][[category:Old English derivations]] picher, [[w:Old French|Old French]][[Category:Old French derivations]] pichier, [[w:Old High German|Old High German]][[Category:Old High German derivations]] pehhar, pehhāri; probably of the same origin as [[beaker]].
===Noun===
'''pitcher'''
#A wide-mouthed, deep [[vessel]] for holding [[liquid]]s, with a [[spout]] or protruding [[lip]] and a [[handle]]; a [[water jug]] or [[jar]] with a large [[ear]] or handle. 
#(Botanical) A [[tubular]] or [[cuplike]] [[appendage]] or expansion of the leaves of certain plants. See [[w:pitcher plant]].



<!-- from Webster

Pitcher (Page: 1091)
Pitch"er (?), n. 

1. One who pitches anything, as hay, quoits, a ball, etc.; specifically (Baseball), the player who delivers the ball to the batsman. 

2. A sort of crowbar for digging. [Obs.] Mortimer. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pitcher (Page: 1091)
Pitch"er (?), n. [OE. picher, OF. pichier, OHG. pehhar, pehh&amacr;ri; prob. of the same origin as E. beaker. Cf. Beaker.] 

1. A wide-mouthed, deep vessel for holding liquids, with a spout or protruding lip and a handle; a water jug or jar with a large ear or handle. 

2. (Bot.) A tubular or cuplike appendage or expansion of the leaves of certain plants. American pitcher plants, the species of Sarracenia. See Sarracenia. -- Australian pitcher plant, the Cephalotus follicularis, a low saxifragaceous herb having two kinds of radical leaves, some oblanceolate and entire, others transformed into little ovoid pitchers, longitudinally triple-winged and ciliated, the mouth covered with a lid shaped like a cockleshell. -- California pitcher plant, the Darlingtonia California. See Darlingtonia. -- Pitcher plant, any plant with the whole or a part of the leaves transformed into pitchers or cuplike organs, especially the species of Nepenthes. See Nepenthes. 

-->

[[bg:pitcher]]
[[et:pitcher]]
[[fr:pitcher]]
[[io:pitcher]]
[[it:pitcher]]
[[hu:pitcher]]
[[vi:pitcher]]