==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin '''[[planeta]]''', '''[[planetes]]''', from Greek '''[[:el:πλανήτης|πλανήτης]]''' (planetes), variant of '''[[πλάνης]]''' (planes) "wanderer, planet".

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ænɪt|-ænɪt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# According to the [http://www.iau.org/ International Astronomical Union], any of the objects [[Mercury]], [[Venus]], [[Earth]], [[Mars]], [[Jupiter]], [[Saturn]], [[Uranus]], [[Neptune]], and [[Pluto]], regardless of finding a succinct definition that matches exactly these nine bodies without leaving any out or including other objects in the Solar system.
# A celestial object that: 1) Orbits the central star directly, not another body, 2) Is not massive enough to allow nuclear fusion in its core, 3) Is massive enough that its own gravity presses it into a roughly circular shape, 4) Is not part of a group of similar objects with overlapping orbits such as the [[asteroid belt]].
# A [http://www.ciw.edu/IAU/div3/wgesp/definition.html working definition] by the International Astronomical Union states that a companion to a star that is smaller than required for the fusion of deuterium, estimated at 13 Jupiter masses is termed a planet.  (But see usage note below).
# (Colloquial or Jargon) A celestial object that is like a planet, and unlike the typical moon etc., in one&rsquo;s field of study, without concern as to its orbit.  (See usage notes below.)  Careful speakers use the term ''[[world]]'' instead.
# A Planet is a celestial body that (a) has enough gravity for a nearly round shape (b) is in orbit around a star and is neither a star nor a satellite. It also can be a dual-planet if the planet and it's partner have nearly the same mass or if the mass ratio is less than 25:1. If the ratio is more the other celestial body would be considered a satellite. If the planet is in or near an astroid belt such as Ceres, Pluto-Charon, and Xena are then the bodies must have nearly parallel orbits to have the astroids caught in their gravity thus keeping the belts nearly stationary within their orbits. However in the case of the Jupiter and Mars astroid belt one planet has to have enough power to "catch" the astroids within it's orbit.

<!-- Careful not to be an encyclopedia:
stick with how people use the word planet, not
with the history etc.  Obviously this does tie
into what a planet _is_, since that is the
word's meaning!  But, here I discuss quibbling 
and contravery of the _word_, not the object
itself.  So it belongs here, not Wikipedia. -->

===Usage notes===
Any simple definition of ''planet'' will not name only and exactly the nine planets in our solar system.  This is partly historical accident and long precedent.

The lack of a universally accepted size-based definition of ''planet'' has caused controversy with the classification of various celestial bodies:
* [[Pluto]] is classified as a planet due to cultural inertia.
* [[Ceres]] was initially classified as a planet but now as an asteroid.
* [[w:2003 UB313|2003 UB<sub>313</sub>]] is pending official classification (as of 2006).

Some celestial bodies are called ''planets'' either colloquially or as technical [[jargon]]:
:''Our angle is that Titan is basically another terrestrial planet, but it’s often not recognized as one because it happens to be orbiting Saturn.''—[http://www.spacedaily.com/news/saturn-titan-04o.html Dr. Vikki Meadows], an astrobiologist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory

Dr. Meadows was pointing out that the term ''terrestrial planet'' as it is used in astrobiology applies to Titan, despite the traditional definition of ''planet''.  Similarly, [[Titan]], [[Europa]], and other large moons with interesting active geologic processes are sometimes called ''planets''.

The Working Group on Extrasolar Planets distinguishes planets from the larger brown dwarfs and objects that are free-floating rather than companions but for a lower limit it specifies, “The minimum mass/size required for an extrasolar object to be considered a planet should be the same as that used in our Solar System.”

===See also===
[[w:Planets|Wikipedia on Planets]]

===Translations===
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[كوكب]]}} (káukab)
*Basque: [[planeta]]
*Binisayâ: [[planeta]]
*Bosnian: [[planeta]] {{f}}
*Breton: [[planedenn]] {{f}}
*Bulgarian: [[планета]] (planeta) {{f}}
*Chinese: [[行星]] (xíngxīng)
*Croatian: planet
*Catalan: [[planeta]] {{f}}
*Czech: [[planeta]] {{f}}
*Danish: planet
*Dutch: [[planeet]] {{f}}
*Esperanto: [[planedo]]
*Estonian: [[planeet]]
*Finnish: [[planeetta]], [[kiertotähti]] (old)
*French: [[planète]] {{f}}
*Frisian: [[planeet]]
*German: [[Planet]] {{m}}, [[Wandelstern]] {{m}} (old)
*{{gmh}}: [[plânête]] {{m}}
*Greek:
**Modern [[πλανήτης]] (planítis) {{m}}
**Ancient [[πλάνης]] (plánēs) {{m}}
*Hawaiian: [[hōkū hele]], [[hōkū ‘ae‘a]], [[hōkū lewa]]
*Hebrew: [[כוכב לכת|כּוֹכַב לֶכֶת]] (kokhav lekhet) {{m}}
*Hindi: [[ग्रह]] (grah)
*Hungarian: [[bolygó]], [[planéta]]
*Indonesian: planet
*Interlingua: [[planeta]]
*Irish: [[pláinéad]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[pianeta]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[惑星]] (わくせい, wakusei)
*Kannada: [[ಗ್ರಹ]] (grah)
*Klingon: [[yuQ]]
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[행성]] [行星] (haengseong)
*Latin: [[stella errans]] {{f}}, [[planeta]] {{m}}
*Latvian: [[planēta]] {{f}}
*Lithuanian: [[planeta]] {{f}}
*Luxemburgish: [[Planéit]] {{m}}
*Malay: planet
*Mongolian: [[гариг]] (garig)
*Neapolitan: [[chianéta]] {{m}}
*Norwegian: planet
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[سیاره]]}} (siyāreh), {{FAchar|[[کره]]}} (kore), {{FAchar|[[اباختر]]}} (abâxtar)
*Polish: [[planeta]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[planeta]]
*Punjabi: [[ਗ੍ਰਹਿ]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[planetă]]
*Russian: [[планета]] (planeta) {{f}}
*Serbian:
:*Cyrillic: [[планета]] {{f}}
:*Roman: [[planeta]] {{f}}
*Sindhi: {{SDchar|[[گِرَھُھ]]}} (girahu) {{m}}
*Slovak: [[planéta]] {{f}}
*Slovene: planet {{m}}
*Spanish: [[planeta]] {{m}}
*Swedish: planet {{c}}
*Telugu: [[గ్రహము]] (grahamu)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[ดาวนพเคราะห์]]}} (dāw-nop-khroh)
*Turkish: [[gezegen]]
*Ukrainian: [[планета]] (planeta) {{f}}
*Urdu: {{URchar|[[سیاره]]}} (siyārah)
*Volapük: planet
*isiZulu: [[unozungezilanga]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''planet'''

# Large [[celestial]] body orbiting a [[star]]; ''see further discussion in the English entry''

====Conjugations====
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 
| bgcolor=#FFFFF0 colspan=5 align=center | '''Common''' 
|- 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
! rowspan=2 | 
| colspan=2 width=105 | ''Singular'' 
| colspan=2 | ''Plural'' 
|- bgcolor=#FFFFF0 align=center 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''Definite'' 
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''Definite'' 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Nominative'' 
| [[planet]] 
| [[planeten]] 
| [[planeter]] 
| [[planeterna]] 
|- align=center 
| width=105 bgcolor=#FFFFF0 | ''Genitive'' 
| [[planets]] 
| [[planetens]] 
| [[planeters]] 
| [[planeternas]] 
|} 

===Noun===
'''planet'''

# ''definite singular'' of [[plan]] (''see this word'')

[[Category:Astronomy]]
[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[el:planet]]
[[fa:planet]]
[[fr:planet]]
[[io:planet]]
[[it:planet]]
[[ku:planet]]
[[la:planet]]
[[hu:planet]]
[[ja:planet]]
[[pl:planet]]
[[sl:planet]]
[[fi:planet]]
[[sv:planet]]
[[ta:planet]]
[[vi:planet]]
[[zh:planet]]