{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From Modern Latin ''Platypus'' (originally a genus name, but already used for a type of beetle), from Greek [[πλατύπους]] ‘flat-footed’, from [[πλατύς]] ‘flat’ + [[πούς]] ‘foot’.

===Noun===
'''platypus''' (''plural:'' '''[[platypuses]]''', '''[[platypi]]''' or '''platypus''')

# An [[egg]]-[[laying]], semi[[aquatic]] [[mammal]] with a [[bill]] resembling that of a [[duck]], a [[mole]]-like body, a [[tail]] resembling that of a [[beaver]], a [[waterproof]] [[pelt]], and flat webbed feet &mdash; males have [[poisonous]] [[spurs]] on the inside of the back legs. The platypus ([[Ornithorhynchus anatinus]]) lives in the freshwater streams of [[Tasmania]] and eastern mainland [[Australia]].

====Synonyms====
*[[duck-billed platypus]]
*[[duckbill]]
*[[duckmole]]
*[[watermole]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[خلد الماء]]}} (khuld al-ma’) {{m}}
*Bulgarian: [[птицечовка]] (ptitsečovka) {{f}}
*Chinese: [[鸭嘴兽]] (yā zuǐ shòu)
*Czech: [[ptakopysk]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[næbdyr]]
*Dutch: [[vogelbekdier]] {{n}}
*Esperanto: [[ornitorinko]]
*Estonian: [[nokkloom]]
*Finnish: [[vesinokkaeläin]]
*French: [[ornithorynque]] {{m}}
*German: [[Schnabeltier]] {{n}}
*Hebrew: [[ברווזן]] (barvazon)
*Icelandic: [[breiðnefur]]
*Ido: [[ornitorinko]]
*Indonesian: [[platipus]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[カモノハシ]] (kamonohashi)
*Korean: [[오리너구리]] (orineoguri)
*Lithuanian: [[ančiasnapis]]
*Malay: platypus
*Norwegian: [[nebbdyr]]
*Ossetic: [[бабызвындз]] (babyzvyndz)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[نوک اردکی]]}} (nook ordaki), {{FAchar|[[ارنی ترنگ]]}} (ornitorank)
*Polish: [[dziobak]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[ornitorrinco]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[утконос]] (utkonós) {{m}}
*Slovene: [[kljunaš]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[ornitorrinco]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[näbbdjur]]
*Thai: {{THchar|[[ตุ่นปากเป็ด]]}} (dtòon bpàak bpèt)
{{bottom}}

===Quotations===
''Singular'' '''platypus'''
*'''1779,''' [[w:George Shaw|George Shaw]], ''The Naturalist's Miscellany: Or, Coloured Figures Of Natural Objects; Drawn and Described Immediately From Nature''
*:The '''Platypus''' is a native of Australia or New Holland, and is at present in the possession of Mr. Dobson, so much distinguished by his exquisite manner of preparing specimens of vegetable anatomy.
''Plural form'' '''platypuses'''
*'''1958,''' Richard H. Manville, ''Concerning Platypuses,'' in ''Journal of Mammology,'' Vol. 39, No. 4
*:For the past ten years the only living duck-billed '''platypuses''', ''Ornithorhynchus anatinus,'' outside their native Australia and Tasmania were the two in the collection of the New York Zoological Society.
''Plural form'' '''platypi'''
*'''1832,''' ''On the Mammary Glands of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus,'' in ''Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London,'' Vol. 122
*:In the insides of several female '''Platypi''' which were shot, eggs were found of the size of a large musket-ball and downwards, imperfectly formed however, i. e. without the hard outer shell, which prevented their preservation. Several young '''Platypi''' were obtained and put into spirits, in which state they are forwarded.
''Plural form'' '''platypus'''
*'''1998,''' Paul R. Manger, Leslie S. Hall & John D. Pettigrew, ''The Development of the External Features of the Platypus (Ornithorhynchus Anatinus),'' in ''Philosophical Transactions: Biological Sciences,'' Vol. 353, No. 1372
*:In this study, the examination of 33 nestling '''platypus''' was undertaken, which represents the largest collection of nestling '''platypus''' examined in any single study. The ages of these '''platypus''' ranged from the day of hatching through to approximately 6 months of age.

===See also===
*[[monotreme]]
*[[echidna]]
[[Category:Mammals]]
[[et:platypus]]