==English==

===Etymology===
Old French '''plate''' ← Medieval Latin '''plata''' ← Vulgar Latin '''*plat(t)us''' ← Medieval Greek '''πλατύς''' (broad, flat, wide).

===Noun===
'''plate'''  (''plural:'' '''[[plates]]''')
# A flat metallic object of uniform thickness.
#: ''A clutch usually has two '''plates'''.''
# A serving dish or food course.
#: ''We filled our plate from the bountiful table.''
# ''(Printing):'' An engraved surface used to transfer an image to paper.
#: ''We finished making the '''plates''' this morning.''
# ''(Printing, Photography):'' An image or copy.
# ''(Dentistry):'' A shaped and fitted surface, usually ceramic or metal that fits into the mouth and in which teeth are implanted; a ''dental plate''.
# ''(Construction):'' A horizontal framing member at the top or bottom of a group of vertical studs.
# A decorative or food service item coated with [[silver]].
#: ''The tea was served in the '''plate'''.''
# ''(Cockney rhyming slang)'' feet, from "'''plates''' of meat".
#: ''"Sit down and give your '''plates''' a rest"''
# {{baseball}} [[home plate]]; where the batter stands next to
#: ''There was a close play at the '''plate'''.''

==== Translations ====
'''a flat metallic object'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[plaat]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[levy]]
*French: [[plaque]] ''f''
*German: [[Platte]] ''f''
*Greek: [[έλασμα]] [ˈe̞laˌzma] ''n'', [[φύλλο]] [ˈfilo̞] ''n'', [[πλάκα]] [ˈplaka] ''f'', [[πιάτο]] [ˈpçato̞] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: placa
*Swedish: [[platta]]
{{bottom}}

'''a serving dish'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bord]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[lautanen]]
*French: [[assiette]] ''f''
*German: [[Teller]] ''m''
*Greek: [[πινάκι]] [piˈnaci] ''n'', [[πιάτο]] [ˈpçato̞] ''n'', [[πινάκιο]] [piˈnaciˌo̞] ''n'', [[σκεύος]] [ˈsce̞vo̞s] ''n''
*Italian: [[piatto]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[talerz]]
*Portuguese: [[prato]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[plato]] ''m''
*Swahili: [[sahani]]
*Swedish: [[fat]]
{{bottom}}

'''''(Printing):'' an engraved surface used to transfer an image to paper'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[plaat]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[painolaatta]], [[painolevy]]
*German: [[Druckstock]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''''(Printing, Photography):'' an image or copy'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[grabado]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''''(Dentistry):'' a dental plate'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''''(Construction):'' A horizontal framing member at the top or bottom of a group of vertical studs'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a decorative or food service item coated with silver'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''''(Cockney rhyming slang)'' feet'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''{{baseball}} home plate'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[lautanen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be verified=====
*Latin: [[platus]]

===Related terms===
* [[platemail]]

===Verb===
[[Category:English verbs]]
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|plat|e}}
# To cover the surface material of an object with a thin coat of another material, usually a metal.
<!--#: ''The jewelery has a thin '''plate''' of gold.''-->
# To present a meal in an appealing way.
#*''After preparation, the chef will '''plate''' the dish.''

==== Translations ====
'''to cover the surface material of an object with a thin coat of another material'''
*Finnish: [[päällystää]]
*French: [[plaquer]]
*German: [[ueberziehen|berziehen]]
*Spanish: [[chapar]]

'''to present a meal in an appealing way'''

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Baseball|plate]]

[[fa:plate]]
[[fr:plate]]
[[io:plate]]
[[it:plate]]
[[hu:plate]]
[[ja:plate]]
[[no:plate]]
[[fi:plate]]
[[ta:plate]]
[[zh:plate]]