==English==

{{rank|London|save|length|580|play|remained|bear|service}}

===Pronunciation===
*plā, /pleɪ/, /<tt>pleI</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-play.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:[[Rhymes:English:-eɪ|Rhymes: -eɪ]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[pleġa]]'', ''plæġa''
====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# Activity for amusement only, especially among the young
# A theatrical performance featuring [[actor]]s.
# An individual's performance in a sport.
# A major move by a business.
# The amount of [[slackness]] in a drive chain or similar looped item.
#:No wonder the fanbelt is slipping: there is too much '''play''' in it.

====Translations====
'''playful activity'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[lojë]] {{f}}
*Catalan: [[joc]] {{m}}
*Croatian: [[igra]] {{f}}
*Danish: leg, spil
*Dutch: [[spel]]
*Esperanto: [[ludo]]
*Finnish: [[leikki]], [[peli]]
*French: [[jeu]] {{m}}
*German: [[Spiel]] {{n}}
*Hungarian: [[játék]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gioco]] {{m}}
*[[Kurdish]]: [[yarî]] {{f}}, [[lîstik]] {{f}}
*Latin: [[ludus]] {{m}}
*Norwegian: [[spill]]
*Portuguese: [[jogo]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[joc]] ''f'' and ''m''
*Slovene: [[igra]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[juego]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[spel]]
{{bottom}}

'''theatrical performance'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[obra]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[戏剧]], [[戲劇]]
*Danish: stykke, spil
*Dutch: [[optreden]] {{n}}, [[schouwspel]] {{n}}, [[toneelstuk]] {{n}}, [[stuk]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[näytelmä]]
*French: [[pièce]] {{f}}
*German: [[Schauspiel]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[dramma]] {{m}}
*[[Kurdish]]: [[şano]] {{f}}, [[piyes]] {{f}}, [[tiyatro]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[peça]] [[teatral]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[igra]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[pjäs]] {{c}}
*Telugu: [[నాటకం]] (naaTakaM)
{{bottom}}

'''individual's performance in a sport'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[spelbeweging]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[peli]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[yarî]] {{f}}, [[lîstik]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[igra]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[spel]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''major move by a business'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[sztuka]] {{f}} (1)
*Slovak [[hra]] (1, 2)

====Derived terms====
*[[playbill]]
*[[player]]
*[[playwright]]
*[[radio play]]

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[pleġian]]''
====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{intransitive}}: To act in a manner such that one has [[fun]]; to engage in activities expressly for the purpose of [[recreation]].
#* '''2001''' February, Annabelle Sabloff, ''Reordering the Natural World'', page 83, University of Toronto Press 
#*: A youngster''...''listed some of the things his pet did not do<!--''...''-->: ''...''go on vacation, '''play''' in the same way that he did with his friends, and so on.
#* '''2003''' November, Anne-Nelly Perret-Clermont et al. (''editors''), ''Joining Society: Social Interaction and Learning in Adolescence and Youth'', page 52, Cambridge University
#*: We had to play <!--[drums]--> for an hour, so that meant that we didn't have time to '''play''' and joke around.
# {{intransitive}}: To produce music using a musical instrument.
#:* I've practiced the piano off and on, and I still can't '''play''' very well.
# {{intransitive}}: To deal with a situation in a diplomatic manner.
# {{intransitive}}: To act in a performance.
# {{transitive}}: To participate in the game indicated.
#:* '''play''' football, '''play''' sports
#:* '''play''' cards, '''play''' poker
#:* '''play''' cat and mouse, '''play''' games
#:* '''play''' house, '''play''' doctor
# {{transitive}}: To produce music on the indicated musical instrument.
#:* I'll '''play''' the piano and you sing.
#:* Can you '''play''' an instrument?
# {{transitive}}: To produce music, the indicated song or style, with a musical instrument.
#:* We especially like to '''play''' jazz together.
#:* '''Play''' a song for me.
#:* Do you know how to '''play''' Für Elise?
#:* My son thinks he can '''play''' music.
# {{transitive}}: To use a device to watch or listen to the indicated recording.
#:* You can '''play''' the DVD now.

====Translations====
'''act in a manner such that one has fun'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[jugar]]
*Chinese: [[玩]] (wán)
*Dutch: [[spelen]]
*Esperanto: [[ludi]]
*Finnish: [[leikkiä]], [[pelata]]
*French: [[jouer]]
*German: [[spielen]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[játszik]]
*Italian: [[giocare]]
*Japanese: [[遊ぶ]] (asobu)
*Old English: [[lacan|lācan]]
*Polish: [[bawić]] (się)
*Portuguese: [[jogar]]
*Romanian: [[juca]]
*Russian: [[играть]]
*Slovene: [[igrati se]]
*Spanish: [[jugar]]
*Swedish: [[leka]]
*Telugu: [[ఆడు]] (aaDu)
{{bottom}}
'''produce music using a musical instrument ([[transitive]] sense)'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: tocar
*Chinese:
**[[弹]], [[彈]] (string instruments including piano)
**[[吹]] (wind instruments)
**[[敲打]] (percussion instruments)
**[[演奏]] (any instrument)
*Dutch: [[spelen]]
*Finnish: [[soittaa]]
*French: [[jouer]] de
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[suonare]]
*Old English: [[lacan|lācan]]
*Polish: [[grać]] na
*Portuguese: [[tocar]]
*Russian: [[играть]], [[воспроизводить]]
*Slovene: [[igrati]]
*Swedish: [[spela]]
{{bottom}}

'''produce music using a musical instrument ([[intransitive]] sense)'''
<!--Note: this an INTRANSITIVE sense-->
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[tocar]]
*Dutch: [[spelen]]
*Finnish: [[soittaa]]
*French: [[jouer]]
*German: [[spielen]]
*Japanese: [[演奏]]する (ensō suru)
*Old English: [[lacan|lācan]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[grać]]
*Portuguese: [[tocar]]
*Russian: [[играть]]
*Slovene: [[igrati]]
*Spanish: [[tocar]]
*Swedish: [[spela]]
{{bottom}}

'''deal with a situation in a diplomatic manner'''
{{top}}
*Polish: [[grać]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''act in a performance'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[actuar]]
*Chinese: [[表演]]
*Dutch: [[optreden]]
*Finnish: [[näytellä]]
*German: [[spielen]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to Z here-->
*Polish: [[grać]], [[występować]]
*Portuguese: [[atuar]], [[representar]]
*Russian: [[играть]]
*Slovene: [[igrati]]
*Swedish: [[agera]], [[spela]] en roll
{{bottom}}

'''participate in (a game)'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: participar, jugar
*Chinese: [[玩]]
*Dutch: [[spelen]], [[meespelen]]
*Finnish: [[pelata]]
*French: [[jouer]] à
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[grać]] w
*Portuguese: [[jogar]]
*Russian: [[играть]]
*Slovene: [[igrati]]
*Spanish: [[jugar]] a
*Swedish: [[spela]]
{{bottom}}

'''use a device to hear (a recording)'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[放]]
*Dutch: [[spelen]], [[afspelen]]
*Finnish: [[toistaa]]
*French: [[jouer]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[grać]], [[odtwarzać]]
*Portuguese: [[gravar]]
*Slovene: [[predvajati]]
*Swedish: [[spela]], [[spela upp]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: (5) [[يعزف]]  (6), [[يتمرن]]
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: [[يلعب]]
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[rhát]]
*{{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[ñembosarái]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[ludar]] (1), [[plear]] (2, 4)
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[jocar]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[súgradh]] (''verbal noun'')
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[hrať sa]]
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[hrať]] (5), (6), (7)
*{{ttbc|Tupinambá}}: [[nhemosaraîa]]

====Derived terms====
*[[playact]]
*[[play along]]
*[[play ball]]
*[[playboy]]
*[[play by play]]<!-- should it be hyphenated or are both OK? -->
*[[play dead]]
*[[Play-Doh]]&trade;<!-- what about the non-trademark spellings? -->
*[[player]]
*[[playful]]
*[[playground]]
*[[play lunch]]
*[[playmate]]
*[[playoff]]
*[[playout]]
*[[playpen]]
*[[playroom]]
*[[playschool]]
*[[play the field]]
*[[plaything]]
*[[playtime]]
*[[play to the gallery]]
*[[play up]]
*[[play along]]
*[[play by ear]]
*[[player]]
*[[two can play that game]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:play]]
[[el:play]]
[[es:play]]
[[fr:play]]
[[io:play]]
[[it:play]]
[[kk:play]]
[[hu:play]]
[[pl:play]]
[[pt:play]]
[[ru:play]]
[[fi:play]]
[[ta:play]]
[[vi:play]]
[[tr:play]]
[[uk:play]]
[[zh:play]]