==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-plot.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# The general course of a [[story]] including significant events that determine its course or significant patterns of events.
# An area or land used for building on or planting on.
# A plan to commit a crime.
# A graph or diagram drawn by hand or produced by a mechanical device.

====Synonyms====
*(''course of a story''): [[storyline]]
*(''plan to commit a crime''): [[conspiracy]], [[scheme]]

====Translations====
'''course of a story'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[plot]]
*French: [[intrigue]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[trama]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[argumento]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''area of land used for building on or planting on'''
{{top}}
*French: [[lopin]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''plan to commit a crime'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[complot]] ''m''
*French: [[complot]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[complotto]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''graph or diagram'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[plot]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|plot||t}}

# To [[conceive]] (a [[crime]], etc).
# To trace out (a graph or diagram).
# To mark (a point on a graph, chart, etc).

====Translations====
'''conceive'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bedenken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''trace out (a graph or diagram)'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[plotten]]
*French: [[tracer]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''mark (a point on a graph)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|plot||t}}

# To [[conceive]] a [[crime]], [[misdeed]], etc.

====Synonyms====
*(''conceive a crime, etc''): [[scheme]]

----

==Albanian==
===Adjective===
'''plot'''

# [[full]]

[[Category:Albanian adjectives]]

----

==Croatian==
===Noun===
'''plot'''

# [[fence]]

[[Category:Croatian nouns]]

----

==Czech==
===Noun===
'''plot'''

#[[fence]]

[[Category:Czech nouns]]

[[fr:plot]]
[[io:plot]]
[[it:plot]]
[[hu:plot]]
[[nl:plot]]
[[ja:plot]]
[[pl:plot]]
[[zh:plot]]