==English==
===Etymology===
From Middle Low German and Middle Dutch ''[[plugge]]'' (Dutch ''[[#Dutch|plug]]''), of unknown ultimate origin.  Cognate with German ''[[Pflock]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|plŭg}}, {{IPA|/plʌɡ/}}, {{SAMPA|/plVg/}}
* {{audio|en-us-plug.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌɡ|-ʌɡ]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#''(electricity)'' A pronged [[connector|connecting]] device which fits into a mating [[socket]].
# Any piece of wood, metal, or other substance used to stop or fill a hole; a stopple.
# A flat oblong cake of pressed tobacco. ([[U.S.]])
# A high, tapering [[silk]] [[hat]]. ([[Slang]], [[U.S.]]).
# A worthless horse. ''(Slang, U.S.)''
# ([[Building]]) A block of wood let into a wall to afford a hold for nails.
# A mention of a product (usually a book, film or play) in an interview, or an interview which features one or more of these.
#{{Geology}} A body of once molten [[rock]] that hardened in a volcanic vent. Usually round or oval in shape.
#{{cattag|fishing}} A type of [[lure]] consisting of a [[rigid]], [[buoyant]] or semi-buoyant body and one or more [[hook]]s.

====Derived terms====
*''(Guns)'' [[breech plug]] in breech-loading guns, the metal plug or cylinder which closes the aperture in the breech, through which the gun is loaded. Plug board.
* [[butt-plug]], a sex toy
* [[fire plug]], a street [[hydrant]] to which hose may be attached. ([[U.S.]])
*{{nautical}} [[hawse plug]], a plug to stop a hawse hole.
* [[plug and feather]] Stone working, see [[feather]], n., 7.
* [[plug centerbit]], a [[centerbit]] ending in a small cylinder instead of a point, so as to follow and enlarge a hole previously made, or to form a counterbore around it.
* [[plug rod]] ([[steam engine]]), a rod attached to the beam for working the valves, as in the Cornish engine.
*{{mechanics}} [[plug valve]], a tapering valve which turns in a case like the plug of a faucet.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*French: [[prise]] {{f}} (1)
*German: [[Stecker]] {{m}} (1), [[Stöpsel]] {{m}} (2)
*Japanese: [[コンセント]] (konsento) (1)
*Portuguese: [[tomada]] {{f}} (1), [[tampão]] {{m}} (2)
*Russian: [[штепсельная вилка]] (štépsel’naja vílka) {{f}} (1), [[пробка]] (próbka) {{f}} (2)
*Spanish: [[enchufe]] {{m}} (1), [[tampón]] {{m}} (2)

===Verb===
{{en-verb|plug|g|ed}}

# {{transitive}} To stop with a plug; to make tight by stopping a hole.
#:''He attempted to '''plug''' the leaks with some caulk.''
# {{transitive}} To mention a particular product or service.
#: ''The main guest on the show just kept '''plugging''' his latest movie: it got so tiresome.''
# {{intransitive}} {{informal}} To [[persist]] or [[continue]] with something.
#:''Keep '''plugging''' at the problem until you find a solution.''

====Related terms====
*[[plug in]]
*[[unplug]]

----

==Croatian==
===Noun===
'''plug''' {{m}}

#[[plough]]

[[Category:Croatian nouns]]

----

==French==
===Etymology===
From English ''[[#English|plug]]''.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/plug/}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun-reg|m}}

# [[butt-plug]]

[[fr:plug]]
[[io:plug]]
[[it:plug]]
[[ja:plug]]
[[pl:plug]]
[[sl:plug]]
[[fi:plug]]
[[ta:plug]]
[[vi:plug]]