==={{initialism}}===
'''PMS'''

#[[performance management system|Performance management system]], [[performance measurement system]] or [[performance monitoring system]] [Note that these are NOT synonymous, but are used in the same field, so intended usage should be confirmed if important.]
#*'''1972:''' United States. Congress. Senate. Judiciary Committee, ''Parole Legislation: Hearings Before the Subcommittee on National Penitentiaries''
#*:The federal Performance Measurement System ('''PMS''') and how It relates to the field of corrections.
#*'''2006:''' Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, ''Survey on Harmonisation and Alignment of Donor Practices: Measuring Aid Harmonisation and Alignment in 14 Partner Countries''
#*:A performance monitoring system ('''PMS''') exists with formal elements for monitoring poverty reduction in relation to the PARPA.
#*'''2006:''' ''ibid (in list of acronyms)''
#*:'''PMS''': Performance-management system
#*'''2006:''' N. Stolbe, B. List, ''Extending the Data Warehouse with Company External Data from Competitors' Websites -- A Case Study in the Banking Sector'' in Joachim Schelp, Robert Winter (editors), ''Auf dem Weg zur Integration Factory: Proceedings der dw2004- Data Warehousing und EAI
#*:Some authors, (see Simons, 1999) suggest that a '''PMS''' [performance measurement system] should include an external monitor component.
#[[premenstrual syndrome|Premenstrual syndrome]] or [[premenstrual stress]] [often considered synonymous]
#*'''1951:''' Edain McCoy, ''Celtic Women's Spirituality''
#*:Premenstrual syndrome ('''PMS''') takes a lot of bashing in the media. It is true that many women become more aggressive during this period, though they are rarely out of control...Therefore, any '''PMS''' symptoms that are perceived as unstable are due to the fact that women act more like men during this phase than at any other time in their cycles.
#*'''1980:''' British Social Biology Council, ''Social Biology and Human Affairs''
#*:By recognising '''PMS''' as a clinical entity women are allowed to Indulge In socially disapproved behaviours, and thus have a safety valve for their resentment.
#*'''2006:''' Kristen Brown, ''Nietzsche And Embodiment: Discerning Bodies and Non-Dualism'' 
#*:By internalizing ideational valuations of '''PMS''', men and women reinforce the appearance of a psychosomatic constitution of '''PMS'''.
#*'''2006:''' Phyllis Greenberger, Jennifer Wider (editors), ''The Savvy Woman Patient: How and Why Sex Difference Affect Your Health''
#*:This is called premenstrual syndrome, or '''PMS'''. It is not well defined, and more than 100 different symptoms have been attributed to '''PMS'''
#[[planned maintenance system|Planned maintenance system]]
#*'''1966:''' United States. Congress. Senate. Armed Services, ''Military Procurement Authorizations for Fiscal Year 1967, Hearings Before the Committee on Armed Services and the Subcommittee on Department of Defense of the Appropriations Committee ... 89-2''
#*:Planned maintenance system for surface missile ships ('''PMS'''/SMS) has been instituted to increase system readiness through a major reduction in system downtime.
#*'''1990:''' Brian Moriarity, Harold E. Roland, ''System Safety Engineering and Management''
#*:Have the hazardous materials associated with the system, particularly for the Planned Maintenance System ('''PMS'''), been identified?
#*'''2002:''' K Refsing, ''Early European Writings on Ainu Culture: Religion and Folklore''
#*:Oil shall be changed out on compressors in strict accordance with the '''PMS''' requirements applicable to that compressor.
#[[project management system|Project management system]]
#*'''1971:''' Boyd C. Paulson, ''Man-computer Concepts for Project Management''
#*:A more comprehensive system now being marketed by IBM, '''PMS''' (Project Management System), includes resource allocation.
#*'''1974:''' United States. Congress. House. Appropriations, ''District of Columbia Appropriations for 1974''
#*:Mr. Tiernan. ...You have [a chart of] performance based on average design and construction performance before '''PMS'''. What is '''PMS'''? Mr. Starobin. Project Management System.
#*'''2006:''' Petter Gottschalk, ''E-Business Strategy, Sourcing And Governance''
#*:We see many changes needed, and IS/IT solutions include executive information system (ElS), project management system ('''PMS'''), research library system (RLS), customer relationship management (CRM), enterprise resources planning (ERP), electronic market places (EMS), and knowledge management system (KMS).
#[[package management system|Package management system]].


====Usage notes====
This initialism stands for a large number of phrases, sometimes even within the same field.  This can cause confusion, eg in the 2006 [[OECD]] document cited twice above, which defines one phrase in the text and a different one in it's glossary.  The definitions above relate only to major uses which have been used for several years and are still current; there are many others in use at present, but not included above.  It is safer to examine the context to check which meaning is intended.