==English==
===Noun===
'''politics'''

Set of policies relating to governmental and legal matters: "I don't like his politics."
Campaigning or arguing for a set of policies, or maneuvering for power: "I want to go into politics."
The study of disputes between rival political factions. "Favoritism is the only use of politics." Richard L Kempe
The practice of responding to conflict with dialogue.

These are inaccurate (as misleading/deceitful) definitions as they have been formulated (probably ...) by political elements (worse than you can imagine? ...) "not" of objectivity (contrary to what they/it represents! ...) I Feel, defintions "not" for Individual understanding, [why else would "my" definition, of choice [freedom, of choice ...] get wiped out? ... "Not" for freedom of choice! confused ones ...] which is, I sense, the shape the Wikipedia, itself, is taking, of politics . [Got you ?!.] Bye bye pretty pretty "artwork," of us ... of little or no substance (truth) or consequence .. .;=)

minister of Individual Understanding (of many "Individuals!" ... [enough] "not" represented here! .. .).  What you do here is political as for politics, The root of all evil, I Feel, as understand and I will advise other Individuals accordingly ... or return here "constantly" (faithfully!) to correct your BS of "politics" ... if you would prefer that .  Trust me, thereof .

If it isn't for Understanding (more) it isn't The truth .  [It's politics?! ...]

===Etymology===
From the Greek, ''poli'': many, and ''tics'' (a formative ending in Greek used for forming adjectives).
Alternatively, from the Greek word ''polis'', meaning city.

===Translations===
*Bulgarian: [[политика]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[政治]] (zhèng zhì)
*{{cs}}: [[politika]] ''f''
*Dutch: [[politiek]] '' ''
*Finnish: [[politiikka]]
*French: [[politique]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[politica]] ''f''
*Norwegian: [[politikk]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[política]] ''f''
*Russian: [[политика]]
*{{sk}}: [[politika#Slovak|politika]] ''f''
*[[Spanish]]: [[política#Spanish|política]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[politik]] ''c'' (1,2)

[[fr:politics]]
[[it:politics]]
[[pt:Politics]]