==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-pool.ogg|Audio (US)}}
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[pōl]]''
===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A small and rather deep collection of (usually) fresh water, as one supplied by a spring, or occurring in the course of a stream; a reservoir for water; as, the pools of Solomon. --[[w:Wyclif|Wyclif]].
#:Charity will hardly water the ground where it must first fill a pool.   --[[W:Bacon|Bacon]].
#: The sleepy pool above the dam. --[[W:Tennyson|Tennyson]].
# A small body of standing or stagnant water; a [[puddle]].
#:''The filthy mantled pool beyond your cell.'' --[[W:Shak|Shak]].
# The stake played for in certain games of cards, billiards, etc.; an aggregated [[stake]] to which each player has contributed a [[snare]]; also, the receptacle for the stakes.

====Translations====
*German: [[Becken]] ''n''
*Hungarian: [[medence]]
*Irish: [[linn]] {{f}} (1)
*Italian: [[piscina]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[piscina]] {{f}}
*French: [[piscine]] {{f}}

===Etymology===
French ''[[poule]]''
====Noun====
'''pool'''

# A game at billiards, in which each of the players stakes a  certain sum, the winner taking the whole; also, in public billiard rooms, a game in which the loser pays the entrance fee for all who engage in the game; a game of skill in pocketing the balls on a pool table.
#:Note: This game is played variously, but commonly with fifteen balls, besides one cue ball, the contest being to drive the most balls into the pockets.
#: He plays pool at the billiard houses. --[[W:Thackeray|Thackeray]].
# In rifle shooting, a contest in which each competitor pays a certain sum for every shot he makes, the net proceeds being divided among the winners.
# Any gambling or commercial venture in which several persons join.
# A combination of persons contributing money to be used for the  purpose of increasing or depressing the market price of stocks, grain, or other commodities; also, the aggregate of the sums so contributed; as, the pool took all the wheat offered below the limit; he put $10,000 into the pool.
# ([[Railroad]]s) A mutual arrangement between competing lines, by which the receipts of all are aggregated, and then distributed pro rata according to agreement. 
# {{law}} An aggregation of properties or rights, belonging to different people in a community, in a common fund, to be charged with common liabilities.

====Derived terms====
*[[blind pool]]
*[[bumper pool]]
*[[carpool]]
*[[cesspool]]
*[[dirty pool]]
*[[gene pool]]
*[[kelly pool]] (3)
*[[motor pool]]
*[[pool hall]]
*[[pool table]]
*[[poolroom]]
*[[swimming pool]] (2)
*[[tidal pool]]
*[[tidepool]]
*[[vanpool]]
*[[whirlpool]]

===Verb===
{{transitive}} '''pool''', past and past participle '''[[pooled]]''', present participle '''[[pooling]]'''

# put together; contribute to a common fund, on the basis of a mutual division of profits or losses; to make a common interest of; as, the companies pooled their traffic.
#:Finally, it favors the pooling of all issues. -- [[w:Grant|Grant]].

{{intransitive}}
# combine or contribute with others, as for a commercial,[[speculative]], or gambling transaction.

===Anagrams===
*[[loop]]
*[[polo]]

----

==Estonian==
===Noun===
'''pool'''

# [[half]]

[[Category:Estonian nouns]]
[[Category:Liquids]]

[[el:pool]]
[[fr:pool]]
[[it:pool]]
[[zh:pool]]