==English==

===Etymology 1===
[[Onomatopoeic]]

====Noun====
'''pop''' (''countable and uncountable''; ''plural'' '''[[pops]]''')

# (''countable'') A loud, sharp sound as of a cork coming out of a bottle.
#: ''The '''pop''' of a Champagne cork.''
# (''uncountable'', ''colloquial'') an [[effervescent]] or [[fizzy]] drink most frequently [[nonalcoholic]]; [[soda pop]].
# 

====Verb====
'''pop'''
# to [[burst], to stick a [[pin]] into a [[balloon]].
# to act [[suddenly]], [[unexpectedly]] or [[quickly]].
# to hit.
#: ''He gave me a '''pop''' on the nose.''

=====Derived terms=====
* [[pop in]], [[pop out]], [[pop on]]
* [[popping crease]]

====Interjection====
'''pop!'''
# sound made in imitation of the sound.

=====Translations=====
*Spanish: [[pum]]

===Etymology 2===
From Greek ''πάππας (pappas)''

====Noun====
'''pop''' (''plural:'' '''pops''')

# (''colloquial'') Affectionate form of father.
#: ''My pop used to tell me to do my homework every night.''
====See also====
* [[papa]], [[pa]]
* [[pap]], [[paps]]

=====Translations=====
*[[Catalan]]: [[papi]], [[papa]]

===Etymology===
Shortened from '''[[popular]]'''

====Noun====
'''pop''' (''uncountable'')

#[[Pop culture]].
#: ''The artist is clearly comfortable with both fine art and pop.''
#[[Pop music]].
#[[Soft drink]]

=====Translations=====
'''pop culture'''
''See'' '''[[pop culture]]'''

'''pop music'''
''See'' '''[[pop music]]'''

====Intransitive verb====
'''to pop''' ([[pops]], [[popped]], [[popping]])

#To make a popping sound.
#:''The popcorn popped loudly.''
#To burst open.
#:''If you blow up that balloon too much, it will pop.''
#(''vulgar'') To ejaculate.
#(''colloquial'') To make a short journey.
#:''Can you just pop to the shop and buy a pint of milk?''
#:''Mrs Jones has popped round to say hello.''

=====Translations=====
*French: [[se]] [[crever]] (2)

====Transitive verb====
'''to pop''' ([[pops]], [[popped]], [[popping]])

#To cause to burst.
#:''The bully popped the little boy's balloon with a straight pin.''
#(''criminal slang'') To murder, particularly by gunshot.
#:''We had to pop the store owner, then we had to pop all the witnesses.''
#(''computing'') To remove (a data item) from the top of a [[stack]].

=====Synonyms=====
*(''cause to burst''): [[burst]]
*(''criminal slang: to murder''): [[bump off]], [[do in]], [[take out]]

=====Antonyms=====
*(''computing'') [[push]]

=====Translations=====
*French: [[crever]] (1)

====Adjective====
'''pop''' (''no {{compar}} or {{superl}}''; ''used only [[attributively]]'')

#Short form of '''[[popular]]'''.
#:''pop culture''

<!--moved to note after respelling of word
====Usage note====
Generally, ''pop'' is used attributively, as in [[pop culture]] or [[pop music]].  One would not generally say something like ''that music is very pop'', but might say ''What do you expect?  It's just pop.''.
-->
=====Translations=====
*French: pop

======Translations to be checked======
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*Vietnamese: [[nước ngọt]], [[nước xô-đa]] (noun 2)

===Derived terms===
*[[corporation pop]]
*[[pop art]]
*[[popcorn]]
*[[pop culture]]
*[[pop group]]
*[[pop gun]], [[popgun]]
*[[pop in]]
*[[pop music]]
*[[pop off]]
*[[pop out]]
*[[pop over]]
*[[popper]]
*[[pop round]]
*[[Pop Tart]]&reg;
*[[pop top]]
*[[pop up]]
*[[pop-up]], [[popup]]
*[[soda pop]]
*[[vox pop]]

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''pop''' {{f}}, {{m}}

#[[doll]]

----
==French==
===Adjective===
'''pop'''

#(''abbreviation of'' '''[[populaire]]''') pop

===Noun===
'''pop''' {{m}}

#pop, [[pop music]]

====Synonyms====
*[[musique pop]]

---
==Catalan==
===Adjective===
'''pop''' (popular)

[[Category:Onomatopoeia]]

[[nl:pop]]
[[pl:pop]]
[[fi:pop]]