{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈpɑpjulɝ/ (GA)}}
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[popularis]]'', from ''[[populus]]'' people: compare French ''[[populaire]]''. See [[people]]
===Adjective===
'''popular'''
{{en-ad2|'''popular'''|'''more popular'''|'''most popular'''}}
#Of or pertaining to the common people, or to the whole body of the people, as distinguished from a select portion; as, the popular voice; popular elections. 
#:'''popular''' states - [[w:Francis Bacon]]
#:So the '''popular''' vote inclines. - [[w:John Milton]]
#:The commonly held in '''popular''' estimation are greatest at a distance. - [[w:John Henry Newman]]
#Suitable to common people; easy to be comprehended; not abstruse; familiar; plain.
#:''Homilies are plain popular instructions''. - [[w:Richard Hooker]]
#Adapted to the means of the common people; possessed or obtainable by the many; hence, cheap; common; ordinary; inferior; as, popular prices; popular amusements.
#:The smallest figs, called '''popular''' figs, . . . are, of all others, the basest and of least account. - [[Holland?]].
#Beloved or approved by the people; pleasing to people in general, or to many people; as, a popular preacher; a popular law; a popular administration.
#''(Rare):'' Devoted to the common people; studious of the favor of the populace. 
#:Such '''popular''' humanity is treason. - [[w:Joseph Addison]]
#''(Obsolete):'' Prevailing among the people; epidemic; as, a popular disease. - [[w:Samuel Johnson]]

====Translations====
'''Of or pertaining to the common people'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Telugu: [[ప్రజా]] (prajaa)
{{bottom}}

'''Beloved or approved by the people'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Telugu: [[ప్రాచుర్యమైన]] (praachuryamaina)
{{bottom}}

===Derived expressions===
#[[w:Popular action|Popular action]], ''(Law):'' an action in which any person may sue for penalty imposed by statute. - [[w:William Blackstone]]

===See also=== 
*[[anonymous]].
Samuel Zentner

===References===
*Webster 1913

[[fr:popular]]
[[gl:popular]]
[[io:popular]]
[[it:popular]]
[[hu:popular]]
[[pl:popular]]
[[pt:popular]]
[[ru:popular]]
[[fi:popular]]
[[ta:popular]]
[[vi:popular]]
[[zh:popular]]