==English==

{{wikipedia}}
===Pronunciation===
*(''[[RP]]''): /pɔːtˈmæntəʊ/, /<tt>pO:t"m{nt@U</tt>/
*(''US''): pôrt'măntō, /pɔːrtˈmæntoʊ/, /pO:rt'm{ntou/
*{{audio|en-us-portmanteau-1.ogg|Audio 1 (US)}}
*{{audio|en-us-portmanteau-2.ogg|Audio 2 (US)}}

===Etymology===
From [[French]] ''[[porte-manteau]]'', literally ''[[porte]]'' ([[carry]]) + ''[[manteau#French|manteau]]'' ([[coat]])

===Noun===
'''portmanteau''' (''plural'' '''[[portmanteaus]]''' ''or'' '''[[portmanteaux]]''')
#A large travelling case usually made of [[leather]], and opening into two equal sections.
#(''linguistics'') A [[portmanteau word]]. 

====Quotations====

(''case'')
*'''1667''' Rodolphus therefore finding such an earnest Invitation, embrac'd it with thanks, and with his Servant and Portmanteau, went to Don Juan's; where they first found good Stabling for their Horses, and afterwards as good Provision for themselves. - Charles Croke, ''Fortune's Uncertainty''

(''portmanteau word'')
* '''1872''' Well, "slithy" means "lithe and slimy." "Lithe" is the same as "active." You see it's like a portmanteau--there are two meanings packed up into one word. - Lewis Carroll. ''Alice Through the Looking Glass'' - This was the first usage in this way.

===Alternative forms===
*(''case''): [[portmantua]]

====Synonyms====
*(''portmanteau word''): [[blend]], [[frankenword]], [[portmanteau word]]

====Translations====

'''case'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[mal]] ''f'', [[malizenn]] ''f''
*Bulgarian: [[голям]] [[кожен]] [[куфар]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[koffer]] ''f'', [[valies]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[matkalaukku]]
*French: [[valise#French|valise]] ''f'', [[malle]] ''f'', [[porte-manteau#French|porte-manteau]] ''m''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[valise#Interlingua|valise]]
{{mid}}
*[[Persian]]: [[چمدان]]  (Chamedan)
*Portuguese: [[maleta#Portuguese|maleta]] ''f'', [[valise#Portuguese|valise]] ''f''
*Russian: [[чемодан]] ''m'', дорожная [[сумка]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[maleta#Spanish|maleta]] ''f'', [[valija]] ''f''
*Vietnamese: [[va li]]
{{bottom}}

'''portmanteau word'''
''See'' '''[[portmanteau word]]'''

===Adjective===
'''portmanteau''' (''no {{compar}} or {{superl}}; used only before a noun'')
#(''the noun used as a [[modifier]]'') Of a word, story, ''etc'', combining two words, stories, ''etc'', in the manner of a portmanteau (in the linguistic sense).

====Quotations====
*'''2002''': The overall narrator of this '''portmanteau''' story - for Dickens co-wrote it with five collaborators on his weekly periodical, ''All the Year Round'' - expresses deep, rational scepticism about the whole business of haunting. - Nicholas Lezard, ''Spooky tales by the master and friends'' in ''The Guardian'' (London) (December 14, 2002) page 30.
*'''2002''' We're so bombarded with images, it's a struggle to preserve our imaginations.' In response, he's turned to cinema, commissioning 11 film-makers to contribute to a '''portmanteau''' film, entitled '11'09"01' and composed of short films each running 11 minutes, nine seconds and one frame. - Nick Bradshaw, ''One day in September'' in ''Time Out'' (December 11, 2002) Page 71.

====Derived terms====
*[[portmanteau film]]
*[[portmanteau word]]

===See also===
*[[:Category:Portmanteaus|List of portmanteau words defined in Wiktionary]]
*[[w:Portmanteau|Wikipedia article on portmanteaus (cases and words)]]

[[fr:portmanteau]]
[[nl:portmanteau]]
[[no:portmanteau]]