==English==

===Etymology===
Unknown; popularly (but falsely) believed to be an [[acronym]] for "port out, starboard home", describing the cabins given to upper-class passengers travelling with the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company from Britain to India and back. The company denies this practice, despite christening its loyalty scheme the "P.O.S.H. Club" after the myth (the club has since been renamed "Portunus").
A more likely origin is the [[Romany]] word ''posh'' meaning "half-", as in ''posh-kooroona'' meaning "half a [[crown]]" - a once-substantial some of money, and hence by association anything pricey or upper-class. Alternatively ''posh'' may have first become a general term for money, after ''posh-houri'', half-penny.
See [http://www.worldwidewords.org/qa/qa-pos1.htm World Wide Words article on "posh"] for other theories. [[Category:Unknown etymology]]

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-uk-posh.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

===Adjective===
'''posh'''

#Associated with the upper classes.
#:''She talks with a '''posh''' accent.''
#Stylish, elegant.
#:''After the performance they went out to a very '''posh''' restaurant.''

====Quotations====
*1919: "Well, it ain't one of the classic events. It were run over there." Docker jerked a thumb vaguely in the direction of France. "At a 'Concours Hippique,' which is '''posh''' fer 'Race Meeting.' &mdash; ''Punch, or the London Charivari,'' Vol. 156, June 18, 1919

====Translations====

'''associated with the upper classes'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''stylish, elegant'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[chic#Dutch|chic]], [[bekakt]] (''pejorative'')
{{mid}}
*French: [[chic#French|chic]] ''m and f'', [[élégant]] ''m'', élégante ''f''
{{bottom}}

[[fr:posh]]