==[[Adjective]]==

# Having a real position, existence, or energy; existing in fact; real; actual; -- opposed to negative. 
#:''Positive good.'' --Bacon.
# Derived from an object by itself; not dependent on changing circumstances or relations; absolute; -- opposed to relative; as, the idea of beauty is not positive, but depends on the different tastes individuals.
# Definitely laid down; explicitly stated; clearly expressed; -- opposed to implied; as, a positive declaration or promise.
#:Positive words, that he would not bear arms against King Edward's son.  --Bacon.
# Hence: Not admitting of any doubt, condition, qualification, or discretion; not dependent on circumstances or probabilities; not speculative; compelling assent or obedience; peremptory; indisputable; decisive; as, positive instructions; positive truth; positive proof.
#:''T is positive 'gainst all exceptions.'' --Shak.
# Prescribed by express enactment or institution; settled by arbitrary appointment; said of laws.
#: In laws, that which is natural bindeth universally; that which is positive, not so.       --Hooker.
# Fully assured; confident; certain; sometimes, overconfident; dogmatic; overbearing; -- said of persons.
#: Some positive, persisting fops we know, That, if once wrong, will needs be always.     --Pope.
# Having the power of direct action or influence; as, a positive voice in legislation. --Swift.
# (Photog.) Corresponding with the original in respect to the position of lights and shades, instead of having the lights and shades reversed; as, a positive picture.
# ([[Chem.]])
#* Electro-positive.
#* Hence, basic; metallic; not acid; -- opposed to [[negative]], and said of metals, bases, and basic radicals.
# ''([[Mach.]] and [[Mech.]])'' Pertaining to a motion or device in which the movement derived from a driver, or the grip or hold of a restraining piece, is communicated through an unyielding intermediate piece or pieces; as, a claw clutch is a positive utch, while a friction clutch is not.
#* Designating, or pertaining to, a device giving a to-and-fro motion; as, a positive dobby.
# ''([[Vehicle]]s)'' Designating a method of steering or turning in which the steering wheels move so that they describe concentric arcs in making a turn, to insure freedom from side slip or harmful  resistance.


{Positive degree} (Gram.), that state of an adjective or adverb which denotes simple quality, without comparison or relation to increase or diminution; as, wise, noble.

{Positive electricity} (Elec), the kind of electricity which is developed when glass is rubbed with silk, or which appears at that pole of a voltaic battery attached to the plate that is not attacked by the exciting liquid; -- formerly called vitreous electricity; -- opposed to negative electricity.

{Positive eyepiece}. See under [[Eyepiece]].

{Positive law}. See Municipal law, under [[w:Law]].

{Positive motion} (Mach.), motion which is derived from a driver through unyielding intermediate pieces, or by direct contact, and not through elastic connections, nor by means of friction, gravity, etc.; definite motion.

{Positive philosophy}. See [[w:Positivism]].

{Positive pole}.
* ([[Elec.]]) The pole of a battery or pile which yields      positive or vitreous electricity; -- opposed to negative pole.
* (Magnetism) The north pole. [R.]

{Positive quantity} (Alg.), an affirmative quantity, or one  affected by the sign plus [+].

{Positive rotation} (Mech.), left-handed rotation.

{Positive sign} (Math.), the sign [+] denoting plus, or more, or addition.

==[[Noun]]==

# That which is capable of being affirmed; reality. --South.
# That which settles by absolute appointment.
# ([[Gram.]]) The positive degree or form.
# (Photog.) A picture in which the lights and shades correspond in position with those of the original, instead of being reversed, as in a negative. --R. Hunt.
# (Elec.) The positive plate of a voltaic or electrolytic  cell.


===Translations===
*Finnish: [[varma]] (1,2) [[positiivi]] (4), [[positiivinen]] (5)

==Related Terms===
*[[positive crystal]]