==English==
===Noun===
{{en-noun|pound|pounds}}

#[[Category:English:Units of Measure]] A [[unit]] of [[mass]], depending on the system used consisting of either 16 or 12 corresponding [[ounce]]s (approximately 454 or 373 [[gram]]s respectively).
# [[pound-force|Pound-force.]]
# A unit of [[currency]] used in Cyprus; Egypt; Lebanon; the United Kingdom and its [[dependency|dependencies]]; and formerly in the Republic of Ireland (which now uses the [[euro]]). Its symbol is <big>'''&pound;'''</big>
# A place for the detention of stray or wandering [[animal]]s.
# A place for the detention of automobiles that have been illegally parked, abandoned, etc.
# A hard blow.
# (''US'') The symbol '''#''' <!--isn't this "pound sign" rather than "pound"?-->
'''Usage note:''' [[w:Manx English|Manx English]] uses this word uncountably.

====Synonyms====
*(''unit of currency''): [[punt]] (''the former Irish currency''), [[pound sterling]] (''the UK currency''), [[sterling]] (''the UK currency'')
*(''# symbol''): [[hash]], [[sharp]]

====Translations====

'''unit of mass'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[pond]]
*Finnish: [[naula]], [[pauna]]
*French: [[livre]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*German: [[Pfund]] ''n''
*Irish: [[punt]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[pund]]
{{bottom}}

'''unit of currency'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[pond]]
*Finnish: [[punta]]
*French: [[livre]] ''f''
*German: [[Pfund]] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[punt]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[libra]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[pund]]
{{bottom}}

'''place for the detention of stray animals'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[eläinsuoja]], [[tarha]]
*French: [[fourrière]] ''f''
*German: [[Zwinger]] ''m'', [[Tierheim]] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[perrera]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

'''place for the detention of automobiles'''
{{top}}
*French: [[fourrière]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''hard blow'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[isku]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''US: symbol #'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ristikkomerkki]], [[risuaita]] (''colloquial'')
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[almohadilla]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbers are not necessarily correct.

*Danish: [[pund]]
*Esperanto: [[funto]] (1), [[pundo]] (2), [[gardejo]] (3), [[frapego]] (4)
*French: [[fourrière]] ''f'' (3)
*Polish: [[funt]]
*Slovak: [[funt]] ''m'' (1), [[libra]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[libra]] ''f'' (1, 2), [[perrera]] ''f'' (3), [[almohadilla]] ''f'' (6)

===Verb===
{{en-verb|pound|pounds|pounded|pounding}}
#{{transitive}} To strike (something or someone) hard repeatedly.
#{{transitive}} to [[crush]] to pieces; to [[pulverize]]
#{{transitive}} (''slang'') To eat or drink very quickly.
#:''You really pounded that beer!''
====Translations====
'''strike hard repeatedly'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[takoa]], [[rusikoida]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[pilar]]
{{bottom}}

<!--
'''crush to pieces'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''eat or drink quickly'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}
-->
===Derived terms===
*[[pounding]]
*[[pound-for-pound]]
*[[pound the table]]
===See also===
*[[w:Pound|Wikipedia article on the pound (the unit of mass)]]
*[[w:Pound_Sterling|Wikipedia article on the pound (the unit of currency)]]

[[fr:pound]]
[[io:pound]]
[[it:pound]]
[[fi:pound]]