==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[poudre]]'', ''[[pouldre]]'', French ''[[poudre]]'', Old French also ''[[poldre]]'', ''[[puldre]]'', Latin ''[[pulvis]]'', ''[[pulveris]]'': cf. [[pollen]] fine flour, mill dust, E. pollen. Cf. {[[polverine]]}, {[[pulverize]]}.

===Pronunciation===
\Pow"der\

*{{audio|en-us-powder.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aʊdə(r)|-aʊdə(r)]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The fine particles to which any dry substance is reduced by pounding, grinding, or triturating, or into which it falls by decay; dust.
#:''Grind their bones to powder small.''  &mdash;Shakespeare
# An explosive mixture used in gunnery, blasting, etc.; [[gunpowder]].

====Translations====
;dust (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[jauhe]], [[pulveri]]
*French: [[poudre]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[polvere]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[pó]] {{m}}
*Telugu: [[పొడి]] (poDi), [[చూర్ణము]] (choorNamu)
{{bottom}}

;gunpowder (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ruuti]]
*French: [[poudre]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[pólvora]] {{f}}
*Telugu: [[పేలుడు మందు]] (paeluDu maMdu)
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: 1. polvos, [[:es:polvo|polvo]] 2. pólvora

===Transitive verb===
'''to powder''' (''powdered'', ''powdering'')

# To reduce to fine particles; to pound, grind, or rub into a powder; to comminute; to pulverize; to triturate.
# To sprinkle with powder, or as with powder; to be sprinkle; as, to powder the hair.
#:''A circling zone thou seest Powdered with stars.'' --Milton.

====Translations====
;To reduce to fine particles (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[jauhaa]] [[hieno|hienoksi]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[reducir a polvo]], [[pulverizar]], [[triturar]]
{{bottom}}

;To sprinkle with powder (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sirotella]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
'''to powder'''
# To be reduced to powder; to become like powder; as, some salts powder easily.
# To use powder on the hair or skin; as, she paints and powders.

====Translations====
;To be reduced to powder (1)
{{top}}
*Spanish: [[pulverizarse]], [[hacerse polvo]]
{{mid}}
*Telugu: [[పొడి చేయు]] (poDi caeyu)
{{bottom}}

;To use powder on the hair or skin (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[puuteroida]]
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[ponerse polvos]], [[empolvarse]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[Atlas powder]], [[baking powder]]
*[[powder down]]
*[[powder-down feather]]
*[[powder-down patch]]
*[[powder hose]]
*[[powder hoy]]
*[[powder magazine]], [[Powder room]]
*[[powder mine]]
*[[powder monkey]]
*[[powder post]]
*[[powder puff]]

[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:powder]]
[[io:powder]]
[[it:powder]]
[[hu:powder]]
[[fi:powder]]
[[ta:powder]]
[[vi:powder]]
[[zh:powder]]