==English==
===Etymology===
By analogy [[teach]] : [[taught]] :: [[preach]] : ''X,'' where X = ''praught''.  Apparently a modern jocular construction but taken seriously by some.  In print, generally appearing as a nonce in a much-quoted [[doggerel]] verse, attributed by some to [[w:Phoebe Cary|Phoebe Cary]] in 1854<!-- verify this? -->, appearing in ''Punchinello'' 1.27 in 1870, there attributed to Amos Keeter<!-- = pseudonym, a mosquito? -->.  See quot. 1870.

===Verb===
'''praught'''
# ''(non-standard)'' [[preached|Preached]]; an irregularly formed past tense of ''to [[preach]].''

===Quotations===
* '''1870''' Amos Keeter, “The Lovers,” in ''[[w:Punchinello|Punchinello]]'' Vol. 1 No. 27. [http://www.gutenberg.org/files/10035/10035-h/10035-h.htm]
*: SALLY SALTER, she was a young teacher, who taught,
*: And her friend, CHARLEY CHURCH, was a preacher, who '''praught''';
*: Though his enemies called him a screecher, who scraught.
*'''1996-05-22'''  The Anglican Mailing List     [http://memoriam.anglicansonline.org/mamawolf/msg00352.html]
*: [...] I don't remember the earnest soul who '''praught''' it [...]
*'''2000-01-30''' Larne Parish Homily Archive [http://www.briantumelty.dnet.co.uk/homily_pubs/B04_Ord_00.htm]
*: They '''praught''' in the synagogue every Sabbath, week in, week out.
*'''2000-11-18''' ''CHRIST AND CUPID: a sermon '''praught''' by Richard Major in the church of St Mark, Florence.'' [subtitle] [http://www.ascensionandsaintagnes.org/sermonarchive/major/2000/sermon18xi00.htm]
*'''2002-08-16''' The Church of Ireland Gazette Online [http://gazette.ireland.anglican.org/160802/panorama160802.htm]
*: [...] including, by the way, York Minster where in 1999 he '''praught''' at the consecration of a new area bishop.
*'''2004-05''' Beautful Feet International Ministries [http://www.bfiministries.org/newsletter.April.May04.htm]
*: So, I ‘'''praught'''’ at this group (median age of late 60’s-70’s J) just like they were teenagers [...]
*'''2004-06-01''' Ian McLeod's Confusticated World [http://ianmcleod.blogspot.com/2004_06_01_ianmcleod_archive.html]
*: Yesterday our new preacher '''praught''' a very good lesson, in which he stated [...]
*'''2005-09-19''' Xander: And the Army is disciplined... [http://xander.lifewithchrist.org/permalink/15985]
*: I went to Balga Corps in the morning, then '''praught''' at a youth meeting at Morley Corps in the evening.

[[Category:English verbs that lack inflection template]]