==English==
==={{initialism}}===
'''PRC'''


#Protestant Reformed Church


Pesticide Residues Committee, an independent committee that advises Ministers, the Pesticides Safety Directorate (PSD) and the Food Standards Agency on surveillance programmes for pesticide residues in food and drink
www.food.gov.uk/safereating/pesticides/pesticidesglossary/

#[[People's Republic of China]], established on Oct. 1, 1949, under the leadership of Mao Zedong and the Chinese Communist Party. It now has a population of nearly 1.3 billion people. Since 1979, its economy has been growing very rapidly (experts debate about how rapidly). While Japan remains the dominant economic power in East Asia, China is now the dominant political and strategic power in the region.
www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/teach/china/4.html


[[Planning Review Committees]]. PRC’s include representatives from the User Community. This includes site staff, students, site administration and community members. PRC’s will be utilized to foster communication regarding the Program and to provide input regarding Program projects. PRC’s are assembled by the Principal at each site.
www.cuhsd.org/ltfip/glossary.html

[[Palm Resource Code]] (PRC) is the file format for Palm OS applications.
scmad.gayanb.com/j2me-glossary1.php

The file format used by PeanutReader, a reading utility for Palm devices from Peanutpress.
www.how-to-do-it-ebooks.com/glossary.htm

[[Protocol Review Committee]], part of the UM Comprehensive Cancer Center Plays a vital role by reviewing protocols and monitoring to assure that clinical trials are scientifically sound and that approved studies maintain adequate patient accrual and scientific progress. The Protocol Review Committee conducts a full scientific review of all studies that have not received peer review by National Institutes of Health-supported review bodies. Web site resources on human volunteer protection:
www.umich.edu/~newsinfo/Releases/2001/Aug01/glossary.html

The [[Preschool Referral Committee]] is a team consisting of school personnel and outside agencies that are included under the Infant Toddler Program for North Carolina. The overall function of the PRC is to provide an interagency framework for evaluating data and making decisions regarding appropriate referral for preschool children referred for exceptional child services.
mts.admin.wsfcs.k12.nc.us/academic/ecmanual/ec01.html

One type of legal status of participants in FP6. PRC means "[[Private Commercial Organisation]] including Consultant" (ie any commercial organisations owned by individuals either directly or by shares). Top
www.okospcr.cz/dokumenty/fp6/glossary.htm

[[Personal radio communications]], Pronounced "prick". Types included the PRC-25 (prick-25) portable FM radio set and the PRC-77 portable secure FM radio set.
www.goldenbrigade.org/encyclopedia.htm

Appearing in primitive form in the second edition rules of the Dungeons & Dragons role-playing game and developed extensively in the third edition rules, [[prestige classes]] (PrC) are character classes that offer specialized, exclusive abilities once certain restrictive requirements are met. 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PrC

[[tr:PRC]]