==English==
===Etymology 1===
From Latin ''[[praecipitatum]]''
===Pronunciation===
*(''noun, adjective'')
**IPA: /prəˈsɪpɪtət/
*(''verb'')
**IPA: /prəˈsɪpɪˌteɪt/

====Noun====
'''precipitate'''
#A product resulting from a process, event, or course of action.
#A substance [[precipitate|precipitated]] from a solution.
#''(Chemistry)'' A solid that exits the liquid phase of a solution.

[[Category: English nouns]]

===Etymology 2===
From Latin ''[[praecipitatus]]

====Adjective====
'''precipitate'''
#[[Headlong]]; falling steeply or vertically.
#Very steep; [[precipitous]].
#With a hasty impulse; hurried; [[headstrong]].
#Moving with excessive speed or haste.
#Performed very rapidly or [[abruptly]].

====Derived terms====
*[[precipitately]]
*[[precipitateness]]

[[Category: English adjectives]]

===Etymology 3===
From Latin ''[[praecipitare]]''

====Verb====
#''(transitive)'' To make something happen suddenly and quickly; [[hasten]].
#''(transitive)'' To throw an object or person from a great height.
#''(transitive)'' To send violently into a certain state or condition.
#''(intransitive) (chemistry)'' To come out of a liquid solution into solid form.
#: ''Adding the acid will cause the salt to precipitate.''
#''(intransitive) (meteorology)'' To have water in the air fall to the ground, for example as rain, snow, sleet, or hail; be deposited as [[consense|condensed]] vapour.
#: ''It will precipitate tomorrow, but we don't know whether as rain or snow.''

====Derived terms====
*[[precipitated]]
*[[precipitator]]

====Related Terms====
*[[precipitation]]

[[Category: English verbs]]

[[pl:precipitate]]