prel·ude   Audio pronunciation of "prelude" ( P )  Pronunciation Key  (prlyd, prld, pr-)
n.

   1. An introductory performance, event, or action preceding a more important one; a preliminary or preface.
   2. Music.
         1. A piece or movement that serves as an introduction to another section or composition and establishes the key, such as one that precedes a fugue, opens a suite, or precedes a church service.
         2. A similar but independent composition for the piano.
         3. The overture to an oratorio, opera, or act of an opera.
         4. A short composition of the 15th and early 16th centuries written in a free style, usually for keyboard.


v. prel·ud·ed, prel·ud·ing, prel·udes
v. tr.

   1. To serve as a prelude to.
   2. To introduce with or as if with a prelude.


v. intr.

    To serve as a prelude or introduction.


[Medieval Latin praeldium, from Latin praeldere, to play beforehand  : prae-, pre- + ldere, to play; see leid- in Indo-European Roots.]preluder n.
pre·ludi·al (pr-ld-l) adj.

[Download or Buy Now]
Source: The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition
Copyright © 2000 by Houghton Mifflin Company.
Published by Houghton Mifflin Company. All rights reserved.

prelude

\Pre*lude"\, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Preluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Preluding.] [L. praeludere, praelusum; prae before + ludere to play: cf. F. pr['e]luder. See Ludicrous.] To play an introduction or prelude; to give a prefatory performance; to serve as prelude.

The musicians preluded on their instruments. --Sir. W. Scott.

We are preluding too largely, and must come at once to the point. --Jeffrey.

Source: Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary, © 1996, 1998 MICRA, Inc.

prelude

\Pre*lude"\, v. t. 1. To introduce with a previous performance; to play or perform a prelude to; as, to prelude a concert with a lively air.

2. To serve as prelude to; to precede as introductory.

[Music] preluding some great tragedy. --Longfellow

Source: Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary, © 1996, 1998 MICRA, Inc.

prelude

\Pre"lude\, n. [F. pr['e]lude (cf. It. preludio, LL. praeludium), fr. L. prae before + ludus play. See Prelude, v. t.] An introductory performance, preceding and preparing for the principal matter; a preliminary part, movement, strain, etc.; especially (Mus.), a strain introducing the theme or chief subject; a movement introductory to a fugue, yet independent; -- with recent composers often synonymous with overture.

The last Georgic was a good prelude to the [AE]nis --Addison.

The cause is more than the prelude, the effect is more than the sequel, of the fact. --Whewell.

Syn: Preface; introduction; preliminary; preamble; forerunner; harbinger; precursor.

Source: Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary, © 1996, 1998 MICRA, Inc.

prelude

n 1: something that serves as a preceding event or introduces what follows; "training is a necessary preliminary to employment"; "drinks were the overture to dinner" [syn: preliminary, overture] 2: music that precedes a fugue or introduces an act in an opera v 1: serve as a prelude or opening to 2: play as a prelude

Source: WordNet ® 2.0, © 2003 Princeton University