==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[principium]]'', beginning, foundation

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A fundamental assumption.
#: ''We need some sort of '''principles''' to reason from.''
# A rule used to choose among solutions to a problem.
#: ''The '''principle''' of least privilege holds that a process should only receive the permissions it needs.''
#: ''The [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pauli_exclusion_principle Pauli Exclusion Principle] prevents two fermions from occupying the same state.''
# (''generally plural'') Moral rule or aspect.
#: ''I don't doubt your '''principles'''; you are clearly a person of '''principle'''.''
#: ''It's the '''principle''' of the thing; I won't do business with someone I can't trust.''
# (''somewhat dated'') A fundamental essence, particularly one producing a given quality.
#: ''Many believe that life is the result of some vital '''principle'''.''
#: ''Cathartine is the bitter, purgative '''principle''' of senna.'' &mdash; Gregory.
# {{obsolete}} A beginning.
#: ''Doubting sad end of '''principle''' unsound.'' &mdash; Spenser.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[原则]]/[[原則]] (yuanze)
*Dutch: [[principe]]
*Finnish: [[periaate]] (1, 2)
*French: [[principe]]
*German: [[Prinzip]] {{n}} (1, 2), [[Prinzipien]] {{p}} (3)
*Greek: [[αρχή]] (arché)
*Italian: [[principio]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[主義]] (しゅぎ, shugi)
*Korean: [[원리]] (wolli) (1, 2)
*Latin: [[principium]] {{n}}
*Norwegian: [[prinsipp]]
*Polish: [[:pl:zasada]], {{f}} (on principle - dla zasady; in principle - w zasadzie)
*Russian: [[принцип]] (printsip)
*Spanish: [[:es:Principio]], {{m}}
*Indonesian: [[prinsip]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|principl|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To equip with principles. Generally used in the past participle.
#: ''Governors should be well '''principled'''.'' --L'Estrange.

====Usage notes====
''Principle'' (moral rule) is often confused with [[principal]] (most important.) Consult both definitions if in doubt.

The confused may care to remember that 'The principal alphabetic principle places A before E' as a reminder of the relative spelling.

===Related terms===
*[[anthropic principle]]
*[[Aufbau principle]]
*[[Bernoulli's principle]]
*[[correspondence principle]]
*[[Dilbert principle]]
*[[equivalence principle]]
*[[first principles]]
*[[Le Chatelier's principle]]
*[[matter of principle]]
*[[on principle]]
*[[Peter principle]]
*[[precautionary principle]]
*[[principle of least action]]
*[[principled stance]]
*[[uncertainty principle]]

===See also===
*[[principal]]

[[fa:principle]]
[[fr:principle]]
[[io:principle]]
[[it:principle]]
[[hu:principle]]
[[pt:principle]]
[[ro:principle]]
[[simple:principle]]
[[fi:principle]]
[[vi:principle]]
[[zh:principle]]