==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: {{IPAchar|/'pr&#593;s&#603;s/}}
*{{audio|en-us-process.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{audio|en-uk-process.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

====Noun====
{{wikipedia}}
'''process'''  (''plural:'' [[processes]])
#A series of events to produce a result.
#{{law}} Legal proceedings.<!--removed "To serve with summons or writ" since the def was for a verb; also IMO writs are part of the process, not the whole; also it is defined at "process server" which is linked -->
#{{biology}} An outgrowth of tissue.
#{{computing}} A [[task]] or [[program]] that is or was [[execute|executing]].
#(''industry'') A [[set]] of [[procedure]]s used to [[produce]] a [[product]], most commonly in the [[food]] and [[chemical]] industries.
#*'''1960:''' Mack Tyner, '''''Process''' Engineering Calculations: Material and Energy Balances'' - Ordinarily a '''process''' plant will use a steam boiler to supply its '''process''' heat requirements and to drive a steam-turbine generator.
#*'''1987:''' J. R. Richards, ''Principles of control system design'' in ''Modelling and control of fermentation '''process'''es'' - The words ''plant'' or '''''process''''' infer generally any dynamic system, be it primarily mechanical, electrical, or chemical '''process''' in nature, and may extend also to include social or economic systems.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[process server]]<!--a person whose job is to hand-deliver a summons, by literaly touching the receiving party with the legal document-->
*[[process hot water]]

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bewerken]], [[bewerking]], [[ontwikkelingsgang]], [[proces]], [[verloop]]
*French: [[recette]], [[processus]] {{m}}, [[procedé]], [[proceder]]
*German: [[Prozess]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[ διεργασία]]
*Ido: [[recepto]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[azione]]
*Portuguese: [[proceder]], [[procedimento]]
*Swedish: [[process#Swedish|process]]
*Spanish: [[proceso]] {{m}}
*Telugu: [[విధానం]] (vidhaanaM)
{{bottom}}

====Transitive verb====
'''to process'''  ([[processes]], [[processed]], [[processing]])
#To perform a particular process.
#To [[treat]] with a substance
#(''Computers'') To use or manipulate data with a software program. 
 
 
 
===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: {{IPAchar|/[[p]][[ɹ]][[ɒ]][[ˈ]][[s]][[ɛ]][[s]]/}}

====Intransitive verb====
'''to process'''  ([[processes]], [[processed]], [[processing]])
#To walk in a [[procession]].

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''process'''

# [[process#English|process]]

{| border=1 cellspacing=0
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=5 align=center | '''gender'''
|-
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! rowspan=2 | &nbsp;
| colspan=2 width=105| Singular 
| colspan=2 | Plural
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
| width=105 | ''Indefinite'' 
| width=105 | ''Definite'' 
| width=105 |  ''Indefinite'' 
|  width=105 | ''Definite''
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Nominative'' 
| [[process]]
| [[processen]]
| [[processer]]
| [[processerna]]
|- align=center
| width=105 bgcolor="#FFFFF0" | ''Genitive'' 
| [[process]]
| [[processens]]
| [[processers]]
| [[processernas]]
|}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:process]]
[[hu:process]]
[[pl:process]]
[[pt:process]]
[[fi:process]]
[[zh:process]]