==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===
From [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] [[prognosticum]] (meaning ''[[omen]]'')  and [[w:Greek language|Greek]][[Category:Greek derivations]] : compare [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] [[pronostic]], prognostic.

===Noun===
'''prognostic'''
#a sign by which a future event may be known or foretold; an indication; a sign or omen; hence, a foretelling; a prediction.
#:''Careful observers may foretell the hour''
#:''(By sure prognostics) when to dread a show’r.''
#:''While rain depends, the pensive cat gives o’er''
#:''Her frolics, and pursues her tail no more.'' Jonathan Swift 
#A sign or symptom indicating the course and termination of a disease.

===Adjective===
'''prognostic'''
#of or relating to [[prognosis]], prediction

===See also===
*[[prognosis]]
*[[prognosticate]]

<!-- From Webster

Prognostic (Page: 1145)
Prog*nos"tic, n. [L. prognosticum, Gr. : cf. F. pronostic, prognostic. See Prognostic, a.] 

1. That which prognosticates; a sign by which a future event may be known or foretold; an indication; a sign or omen; hence, a foretelling; a prediction. 

That choice would inevitably be considered by the country as a prognostic of the highest import. Macaulay.
2. (Med.) A sign or symptom indicating the course and termination of a disease. Parr. Syn. -- Sign; omen; presage; token; indication. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prognostic (Page: 1145)
Prog*nos"tic, v. t. To prognosticate. [Obs.] 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Displaying 1 result(s) from the 1828 edition:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
PROGNOS''TIC, a. Foreshowing; indicating something future by signs or symptoms; as the prognostic symptoms of a disease; prognostic signs.

PROGNOS''TIC, n. In medicine, the judgment formed concerning the event of a disease by means of the symptoms.


1. Something which foreshows; a sign by which a future event may be known or foretold.

In medicine, a sign or symptom indicating the event of a disease. The appearance of the tongue--is of considerable importance as a prognostic.

1. A foretelling; prediction.

-->