<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="afd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion''' in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]][[Template:Afd|.]]<br />
Please share your thoughts on the matter at '''[[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/{{PAGENAME}}|this article's entry]]''' on the Articles for Deletion page.<br />
You are welcome to edit this article, but please do not blank this article or remove this notice while the discussion is in progress. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to deletion|Guide to Deletion]].<br/>
<div class="NavFrame" style="padding:0;border-style:none;"><div class="NavFrame" style="border-style:none;padding:0;"><div class="NavHead" style="background:#EDF1F1;text-align:left;"><span style="font-weight:normal;font-style:italic;">[[Template:AfD in 3 steps|How to list a page for deletion]] ([{{SERVER}}{{localurl:Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Log/{{CURRENTYEAR}}_{{CURRENTMONTHNAMEGEN}}_{{CURRENTDAY}}|action=edit}} log])</span></div>
<div class="NavContent" style="display:none;background:#EDF1F1;">
{{AfD doc}}
</div></div></div></div>
[[Category:Pages for deletion]]
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->
{{Move to Wiktionary}}

'''Propheteering''' is the excersize of the duties, powers, and/or office of a [[Prophet]] with an emphasis on the derivation of money.



Propheteering has been the subject of a number of novels and movies.  It is embodied in the very history of the [[church]] and is of massive historical importance.  People who use the church as a scam to make money for themselves.

and there's more where they come from.  You should note that most [[psychic]]s are considered to be propheteers, since they ask you for money in return for your fortune.  The phrase, which is a combination of "prophet" and "profiteering" is a way of describing a false prophet who makes money out of it.  Sometimes it is used to refer to people who are real prophets but make money out of it anyway.  For example, someone who can read tarot cards might well be real, but they are still making money out of it when they perhaps shouldn't be.  This is actually a HUGE debate in the [[pagan]] community as to whether or not people should charge for their "gift".  Propheteering is, obviously, a derogatory term.  The term is usually used to refer to Christians, but the meaning is used to refer to pagans a lot more than christians, and indeed Christians use the meaning of it as a derogatory way to be dismissive of pagans generally.  There was a movie which went in to this concept quite well, and used the word "propheteering".  The movie, now, I have to remember it.  It had [[Sean Connery]] in it and was about a dragon.  Ah yes, [[Dragonheart]].  That movie was basically 90% about propheteering, and it used that word too.

==Homonym==
*[[Profiteering]]

==References==

*[http://www.google.com.au/search?q=propheteering&hl=en&lr=&c2coff=1&safe=off&start=10&sa=N 433 hits]
*[http://www.clambake.org/archive/books/bfm/rvwgard.htm here]
*[http://www.classicalvalues.com/archives/000915.html here]
*[http://argus.lakeheadu.ca/index.php?section=2&article=228 here]
*[http://worcesterphoenix.com/archive/movies/98/12/18/THE_PRINCE_OF_EGYPT.html here]
*[http://www.swirlednews.com/article.asp?artID=393 here]
*[http://www.lds-mormon.com/vogel.shtml here]
*[http://www.deceptioninthechurch.com/newapostolic.html here]
*[http://innerself.com/Humor/Holy_Shift.htm here]
*[http://www.playlouder.com/review/+hope/ here] 
*[http://www.classicalvalues.com/archives/000915.html ClassicalValues.com]
*[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=propheteering Google]
*[http://mountainx.com/ae/2003/0507dylan.php Ashville NC]
*[http://joemygod.blogspot.com/2005/07/propheteering.html Blog]

{{vocab-stub}}