{{Mergeto|Personification|date=September 2006}}

A '''prosopopoeia''' ([[Greek language|Greek]]: '''προσωποποιία''') is a rhetorical device in which a speaker or writer communicates to the audience by speaking as another person or object. The term literally derives from the [[Greek language|Greek]] roots meaning "a face, a person, to make".

Prosopopoeiae are used mostly to give another perspective on the action being described. For example, in Cicero's [[Pro Caelio]], Cicero speaks as Appius Claudius Caecus, a stern old man. This serves to give the "ancient" perspective on the actions of the plaintiff. Prosopopoeiae can also be used to take some of the load off of the communicator by placing an unfavorable point of view on the shoulders of an imaginary stereotype. The audience's reactions are predisposed to go towards this figment rather than the communicator himself.

Examples:
*"If [[Miller Huggins]] was alive today, he'd be turning over in his grave". —[[Yogi Berra]], speaking of a former [[New York Yankees|Yankees]] manager.

*Often a prosecutor will suggest to [[jury|jurors]] that a [[homicide]] victim is "speaking to us through the evidence". Before becoming a [[United States Senator|Senator]], [[John Edwards]] was reputed to have made such an argument in one of his most famous [[tort]] cases, representing the family of a girl who had been killed by a defective pool drain.

==References==
*[http://www.litencyc.com/php/stopics.php?rec=true&UID=906 Literary Encyclopedia page on Prosopopoeia]

{{vocab-stub}}
[[Category:Rhetoric]]
[[Category:Figures of speech]]

[[sv:Prosopopoeia]]