'''Prostitot''' is a derogatory term for [[United States|American]] [[prepubescent]] girls who dress to emulate the dress styles and attitudes of loose [[twenty something]] women.  Examples of this dress style in popular culture include [[Britney Spears]] and [[Christina Aguilera]].

These girls are typically 10-14 years old, and dress most commonly in short-shorts, bare-belly shirts, furry accessories, loud jewlery and generally anything that is revealing, tight, or bawdy.  They spend most of their time in the mall or in front of movie theaters.  They tend to prey on young men who are between the ages of 16 and 22 who value sex over thinking.  13-year-old prostitots bragging about their multiple 19- and 20-year-old boyfriends is not unheard of or uncommon.

The prostitot lifestyle is not only perpetuated through [[Peer pressure]] but also reinforced through our sexually indulgent culture.   [[Bratz]] toys are the main offenders.  If an evil scientist created a device that turned living, breathing human beings into plastic dolls, Bratz are examples of prostitots transformed by such a device. Another example of culture accpeting such a lifestyle is the musical artist [[JoJo]].  Championed by [[MTV]], she is the poster child for prostitot culture.  While she has recently turned 15 (elevating her above the term prostitot and into the realm of just plain [[skank]]), before turning 14 she released a musical album relating her despair of a guy cheating on her with her best friend, a common symptom of prostitotion.

See also:[[Poptart]] [[Jailbait]] and [[kinderwhore]]

[[Category:Fashion]]