==English==

===Etymology===
{{L.}} pro sequor: to persue.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
#A female [[prosecutor]]
#*The paper reports today that Inger Marie Sunde, a '''prosecutrix''' in charge of what the locals call Okokrim (white collar crime), put young Jon on the stand again and probed for inconsistencies in his answers. [http://www.theinquirer.net/?article=6686]
#*'''2004''':The appellant contended that the trial was rendered unfair as a result of the conduct of the '''prosecutrix'''. She accused the '''prosecutrix''' of having a conversation with members of the jury in which the '''prosecutrix''' was alleged to have pointed out certain items on a flip chart that was erected in the court for the purposes of the trial. This was alleged to have occurred shortly before the trial judge entered the court to resume the trial on the morning of June 9, 2004. TARA SANKARSINGH AND THE STATE[http://www.ttlawcourts.org/Judgments/coa/2006/hamelsmith/CvCrim_41_04DD13jun06.rtf]
#A female who prosecutes a case.
#*'''1893''':The '''prosecutrix''' was the wife of a [[ticket-of-leave]] man, named Daniel Jackson, and she was also separated from her husband, and lived for some time with a man named Clarke, who died on the day before the alleged robbery was committed.  Clarke left a will bequeathing all his property to the '''prosecutrix''', who, immediately on his death, possessed herself of sixty pound in money which was in his box, which she rolled up and placed in her bosom.R v Smith. [http://www.law.mq.edu.au/scnsw/Cases1838-39/html/r_v_smith__no_2___1839.htm]
#*In October of 1992 the '''prosecutrix''' was 14 years old and in the 9th grade at West Mecklenburg High School. The prosecutrix lived with her parents and her younger sister in Charlotte. Defendant resided two houses away. Defendant was 18 years old and would sometimes come to visit the prosecutrix's father who restored old cars. The prosecutrix had seen the defendant at her father's garage several times and had also seen him inside the house on several occasions when he had used the bathroom. STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA  v. SCOTT CANUP [http://www.caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/scripts/getcase.pl?court=nc&vol=appeals%5Cappeals1220%5C&invol=canup]
#*'''1997''':The '''prosecutrix''' and appellant were discovered together in the '''prosecutrix’''' bedroom by Ms. Morales, the '''prosecutrix’''' roommate and a key government witness. The '''prosecutrix''' was partially dressed and was unconscious. Upon awakening, the '''prosecutrix''' claimed that appellant had forced himself on her. US v Carter:[http://www.armfor.uscourts.gov/opinions/1997Term/97-0021.htm]

[[Category: Law]]