In [[physical anthropology]], the term refers to behaviours passed from one generation to another among non-human primates.  These cultures are very rudimentary, and do not exhibit complex cultural technology.

In ''[[The Super Dimension Fortress Macross]]'' Japanese animated series, the Protoculture was the first civilization in the known universe. Protoculture genetically influenced the existing native life on Earth to spur the emergence of Humankind. Protoculture also genetically engineered the giant Zentradi race for its proxy warfare.

In ''[[Robotech]]'', the American-edited adaptation of ''Macross'' with ''[[Super Dimension Cavalry Southern Cross]]'' and ''[[Genesis Climber Mospeada]]'', Protoculture was a powerful energy source, and a catalyst in genetic engineering.

In ''Robotech: The Legend of Zor'', a six-part comic book mini-series published by Eternity Comics in the early 1990s, the origin and use of Protoculture is explained.  Zor, a young scientist from the planet of Tirol, is part of a major interplanetary scientific expedition. On one leg of the survey Zor lands on the planet Optera, which is home to the insect-like Invid race. Zor finds himself in telepathic communication with the central intelligence of the Invid and through their meeting an exchange of information between the two races is achieved. The Invid consciousness learns of Tirolian science and engineering, and Zor learns of the innermost secrets of the Flowers of Life, a flower that dominates the landscape of the planet (as well as the diet of the Invid).

By processing the Flowers of Life the energy source known as Protoculture was created. Due to the greed and growing thirst for power of the Tirolian government, the planet of Optera is almost completely decimated due to Tirolian harvesting of the Flowers of Life. This callous defoliation inspires the Invid to create their immense war machine and attack the Tirolians, aka the Robotech Masters. After the Emperor orders Zor's father killed, Zor decides to destroy the Masters' Protoculture factories. Zor then escapes the Masters, along with the only working Protoculture factory, inside of the experimental SDF-1. This ship soon crashes on Earth and sets the stage for the ''Robotech'' saga. By Harmony Gold's current stance, this comic series is no longer canon.