{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
\Pro"to*col\

===Etymology===
{{F.}} ''[[protocole]]'', {{LL.}} ''[[protocollum]]'', from {{Gr.}} [Πρωτόκολλο (Πρώτο+κολλάω)]  the first leaf glued to the rolls of papyrus and the notarial documents, on which the date was written; prw^tos the first (see [[Proto-]] +  [[glue]].)

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A rule which guides how an activity should be performed.
# The original copy of any writing, as of a deed, treaty, dispatch, or other instrument.
# The minutes, or rough draft, of an instrument or transaction.
# {{cattag|diplomacy}} A preliminary document upon the basis of which negotiations are carried on.
# {{cattag|diplomacy}} A convention not formally ratified.
# {{cattag|diplomacy}} An agreement of diplomatists indicating the results reached by them at a particular stage of a negotiation.
# {{computing}} A set of formal rules describing how to transmit data, especially across a network.  A message syntax or electrical specification and a description 2 or more communication nodes: finite [[state machine|state machines]], the [[transition function|transition functions]] of which take messages or times as input and, when then so triggered, may themselves send messages.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{obsolete}}, {{transitive}}: To make a protocol of.
# {{obsolete}}, {{intransitive}}: To make or write protocols, or first drafts; to issue protocols.

{{Webster}}

[[fr:protocol]]
[[io:protocol]]
[[it:protocol]]
[[nl:protocol]]
[[zh:protocol]]