==English==

===Etymology===

Coined by Mikhail Epstein (and adopted by the Wiktionary community) from Greek ''protos'', first + Greek ''logos'', word, by analogy with [[prototype]] and [[neologism]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A newly [[coin]]ed word or phrase defined in the hope that it will become accepted into the language.
#*'''2005''' February 15, Steve Gooch, ''Ceci n'est pas une cybercarnet.<!--sic-->'', at <tt>mentalspigot.com</tt> [http://www.mentalspigot.com/archaeology/000800.html]
#*: Finally, a '''protologism''' for one of my favorite activities.
#*'''2005''', Geoffrey D. Falk, ''Stripping the Gurus'', Appendix IV, Million Monkeys Press
#*: spoofs that I incorporated in this essay: ''...'' coined a neologism/'''protologism'''
#*'''2006''' February 7, Scott Fletcher, “Podfaders in Wired Magazine”, ''Podcheck Review'' [http://blog.podcheck.com/?p=52]
#*: If you're''...''a member of the Wikipedia police, the word “podfade”<!--curly quotes in original--> is merely neologistic '''protologism''', not suitable for inclusion in Wikipedia.
#*'''2006''' March 15, Ian Morrison, “Tom Weir”, <tt>soc.culture.scottish</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*: I think it is very cheeky to suggest that *our* word is a '''protologism''' when the word "protologism" itself was only invented a month ago.
#*'''2006''' September 12, Dwight “The Troubled Teen”, “Vocab Vacuum”, ''Ruminations of a Misspent Youth'', at <tt>dwightthetroubledteen.blogspot.com</tt> [http://dwightthetroubledteen.blogspot.com/2006/09/vocab-vacuum.html]
#*:So what's the word for''....'' I need a good Sniglet or '''protologism'''.
# {{wjargon}} A recently created word in narrow use but not yet in general use, as is difficult to distinguish from a newly coined word.

===Notes===
*Please do not create articles for protologisms you would like to see in use.  Instead, please add them to [[Wiktionary:List of protologisms]].  In this context the ''first'' definition ("newly coined in the hope it will become accepted") is relevant. Wiktionary routinely allows terms with only a few recorded usages, so long as these are independent (see [[Wiktionary:Criteria for inclusion]] for more detail).

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary:List of protologisms]] for a topical listing.
*[[:Category:Protologism]] for an alphabetical listing of protologisms for which full articles erroneously exist.