==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[prūd]]''

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-proud.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aʊd|-aʊd]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-er}}
# Feeling or manifesting pride, in a good or bad sense.
# Happy.  Usually used with a sense of honor, as in "I'm so '''proud''' to have you in our town." But occasionally just plain happy as in "I'm '''proud''' to see gas prices down." This is a widespread colloquial usage in the South. 
# Excited by sexual desire; -- applied particularly to the females of some animals.
# Standing out or [[raised]].
#* After it had healed, the scar tissue stood '''proud''' of his flesh.
# Having reason or occasion for [[pride]] or self-gratulation; worthy of admiration.
#* I am '''proud''' of Sivu's schoolwork.
# Possessing or showing too great self-esteem; overrating one's excellences; hence, [[arrogant]]; [[haughty]]; lordly; presumptuous.
#* ''Godolphin Horne Who was cursed with the Sin of Pride, and Became a Boot-Black''. Hillair Belloc.
:Godolphin Horne was Nobly Born; 
:He held the human race in scorn, 
:And lived with all his sisters where 
:His father lived, in Berkeley Square. 
:And oh! The lad was deathly '''proud'''! 
:He never shook your hand or bowed, 
:But merely smirked and nodded thus: 
:How perfectly ridiculous! 
:Alas! That such Affected Tricks 
:Should flourish in a child of six!

===Related Terms===
*[[pride]]
====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Croatian: [[gord]]
*Czech: [[hrdý]]
*Danish: [[stolt]]
*Esperanto: [[fiera]]
*Finnish: [[ylpeä]] (1)
*French: [[fier]] (1) [[:fr: fier |°]]
*Frisian: [[grutsk]]
*Hungarian: [[büszke]] (1) [[:hu: büszke |°]] 
*German: [[stolz]] (1) [[:de: stolz |°]]
*Italian: [[fiero]] (1) [[:it: fiero |°]]
*Portuguese: [[orgulhoso]] (1) [[:pt: orgulhoso |°]]
*Slovak: [[hrdý]]
*Spanish: [[orgulloso]] (1) [[:es: orgulloso |°]]

----

==Czech==
===Noun===
'''proud'''

#[[current]]

[[Category:Czech nouns]]

[[fr:proud]]
[[io:proud]]
[[it:proud]]
[[hu:proud]]
[[pt:proud]]
[[simple:proud]]
[[fi:proud]]
[[ta:proud]]
[[vi:proud]]