==English==

===Etymology===
Probable alteration of (verb) [[poke]]
===Verb===
{{en-verb}}
# To [[pinch]] or [[wrinkle]]; to [[squeeze]] inwardly, to [[dimple]] or [[fold]].
#:'''1914''' ''The conduct of the white strangers it was that caused him the greatest perturbation. He '''puckered''' his brows into a frown of deep thought.'' — Edgar Rice Burroughs, ''Tarzan of the Apes'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=129095328&tag=Burroughs,+Edgar+Rice,+1875-1950:+Tarzan+of+the+Apes,+1914&query=pucker&id=BurTarz Chapter 13.]
#:'''1893''' ''He had a very dark, fearsome face, and a gleam in his eyes that comes back to me in my dreams. His hair and whiskers were shot with gray, and his face was all crinkled and '''puckered''' like a withered apple.'' — Arthur Conan Doyle, [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=275135021&tag=Doyle,+Arthur+Conan:+The+Adventure+of+the+Crooked+Man,+1893&query=pucker&id=DoyCroo "The Adventure of the Crooked Man".]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# A [[fold]] or wrinkle.
#:'''1921''' ''The mouth was compressed, and on either side of it two tiny wrinkles had formed themselves in her cheeks. An infinity of slightly malicious amusement lurked in those little folds, in the '''puckers''' about the half-closed eyes, in the eyes themselves, bright and laughing between the narrowed lids. — Aldous Huxley, ''Crome Yellow'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=368514757&tag=Huxley,+Aldous,+1894-1963:+Crome+yellow,+1921&query=the+pucker&id=HuxCrom Chapter 3.]
# A [[sour]] situation.
#:'''1874''' ''"What a '''pucker''' everything is in!" said Bathsheba, discontentedly when the child had gone. "Get away, Maryann, or go on with your scrubbing, or do something! You ought to be married by this time, and not here troubling me!"'' — Thomas Hardy, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=342016808&tag=Hardy,+Thomas:+Far+from+the+Madding+Crowd,+1874&query=a+pucker&id=HarMadd Far From the Madding Crowd.]''

[[fr:pucker]]
[[vi:pucker]]