==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|pŭmp}}, {{IPA|/pʌmp/}}, {{SAMPA|/pVmp/}}
*{{audio|en-us-pump.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌmp|-ʌmp]]

===Etymology 1===
From Middle English ''[[pumpe]]''; compare German ''[[pumpen]]'' and Dutch ''[[pompen]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A device for moving or compressing a liquid or gas.
#: ''This '''pump''' can deliver 100 gallons of water per minute.''
# An instance of the action of a pump; one stroke of a pump; any action similar to pumping
#: ''It takes thirty '''pumps''' to get 10 litres ; he did 50 '''pumps''' of the [[weights]].''
# A device for dispensing liquid or gas to be sold, particularly fuel.
#: ''This '''pump''' is out of order, but you can gas up at the next one.''
# {{bodybuilding}} A [[swell]]ing of the [[muscle]]s caused by increased [[blood]] flow following high [[intensity]] [[weightlifting]]. 
# {{colloquial}} A ride on a bicycle given to a passenger, usually on the [[handlebar]]s or [[fender]].
#: ''She gave the other girl a '''pump''' on her new bike.''
# (''Obsolete American slang'') The [[heart]].

=====Translations=====
'''device for moving liquid or gas'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[pomp]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[pumppu]]
*French: [[pompe]] {{f}}
*German: [[Pumpe]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[pompa]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Papiamento: [[pòmp]]
*Portuguese: [[bomba]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[črpalka]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[bomba]] {{f}}
*Telugu: [[పంపు]] (paMpu)
*Welsh: [[pwmp]]
{{bottom}}

'''instance of the action of a pump; one stroke of a pump; any action similar to pumping'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[bombeio]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''device for dispensing liquid or gas to be sold, especially fuel'''
{{top}}
*French: [[pompe]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[bomba]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[črpalka]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''in bodybuilding'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''ride on a bicycle given to a passenger, usually on the handlebars or fender'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ritsi]], [[kyyti]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
{{etystub}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{UK}} A type of shoe, a [[trainer]] or [[sneaker]].
# {{italbrac|especially in the US}} A type of very high-heeled shoe; [[stilettoes]].
#: ''She was wearing a lovely new pair of '''pumps'''.''

=====References=====
*[http://images.google.com/images?sourceid=navclient-ff&ie=UTF-8&rls=GGGL,GGGL:2006-22,GGGL:en&q=pumps%20shoes&sa=N&tab=wi] Some images.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''shoe''): [[plimsoll]] (''UK''), [[sneaker]] <s>(''especially US'')</s>, [[trainer]] 

=====Translations=====
;shoe
''See'' '''[[trainer]]''' ''and'' '''[[sneaker]]'''

;high-heeled shoe
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 3===
Compare Dutch ''[[pompen]]'' and German ''[[pumpen]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To use a pump to move (liquid or gas).
#:''I've '''pumped''' over 1000 gallons of water in the last ten minutes.''
# {{transitive}} (''often followed by'' '''up''') To fill with air.
#:''He '''pumped''' up the air-bed by hand, but used the service station air to '''pump''' up the tyres.''
# {{transitive}} To move rhythmically, as the motion of a pump.
#:''I '''pumped''' my fist with joy when I won the race.''
# {{transitive}} To shake (a person's hand) vigorously.
# {{transitive}} To gain information from (a person) by persistent questioning.
# {{intransitive}} To use a pump to move liquid or gas.
#:''I've been '''pumping''' for over a minute but the water isn't coming through.''
# {{intransitive}} {{slang}} To be going very well.
#:''The waves were really '''pumping''' this morning.''
#:''Last night's party was really '''pumping'''.''

=====Translations=====
'''use a pump to move (liquid or gas)'''
<!--Put translations of the TRANSITIVE sense here-->
{{top}}
*French: [[pomper]]
*Finnish: [[pumpata]]
*Dutch: [[pompen]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[pompare]]
*Portuguese: [[bombear]]
*Slovene: [[črpati]]
*Telugu: [[తోడు]] (tODu)
{{bottom}}

'''move rhythmically, as the motion of a pump'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[bombear]]
{{bottom}}

'''shake (a person's hand) vigorously'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''gain information from (a person) by persistent questioning'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''use a pump to move liquid or gas'''
<!--Put translations of the INTRANSITIVE sense here-->
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slang: be going very well'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: estar bombando (''Brazil'')
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[air pump]]
*[[hand pump]]
*[[petrol pump]]
*[[price at the pump]]
*[[pumped]] <!-- slang, short for "pumped up" -->
*[[pump fake]]
*[[pump iron]]
*[[pump up]]
*[[stirrup pump]]
*[[sump pump]]
*[[under the pump]]

----

==Welsh==

===Cardinal number===
'''pump'''

#[[five]]

[[Category:Dutch derivations]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Surfing]]

[[cy:pump]]
[[fr:pump]]
[[io:pump]]
[[it:pump]]
[[hu:pump]]
[[nl:pump]]
[[pl:pump]]
[[pt:pump]]
[[fi:pump]]
[[sv:pump]]
[[ta:pump]]
[[vi:pump]]
[[zh:pump]]