{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌŋk|-ʌŋk]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|s|-}}

# {{countable}} (''16th century'') A [[prostitute]], possibly deriving from "puncture".
# {{countable}} (''19th century'') The [[bottom]] in a male-male sexual relationship; a [[catamite]].
#:In prison slang, this often indicates an unwilling partner, "owned" by another.
#:''Because he was so weak, Vinny soon became Tony's '''punk'''.''
# {{uncountable}} A social and musical movement rooted in rebelling against the established order.
# {{uncountable}} The music of the punk movement, known for short songs with electric guitars, strong drums, and a direct, [[unproduced]] approach. 
# {{countable}} A person subscribing to the movement, a [[punk rocker]]. 
#:'''Usage note:''' An informal plural used within the punk subculture is ''[[punx]]''.
# {{countable}} A [[worthless]] person.
# {{uncountable}} [[wood|Wood]] so [[decay]]ed as to be dry, crumbly, and useful for tinder; [[touchwood]].
# {{uncountable}} A [[fungus]] (''Polyporus fomentarius'', etc.) sometimes dried for tinder; [[agaric]].
# {{uncountable}} An artificial tinder. See [[amadou]] and [[spunk]].

====Usage notes====
The most common usage is as in ''[[Punk rock]]'', the social and musical movement. In the UK this is possibly the sole useage with occasional quotation from film, TV etc. as in the example given below.

====Quotations====
'''worthless person'''
*'''1971''' - I know what you're thinking, '''punk'''. You're thinking, "Did he fire six shots or only five?" Well, to tell you the truth, I've forgotten myself in all this excitement. But being as this is a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world, and would blow your head clean off, you've got to ask yourself a question: Do I feel lucky? Well, do ya '''punk'''? &mdash; Clint Eastword as Harry Callahan in the motion picture ''[[w:Dirty Harry|Dirty Harry]]''

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# (''17th century'') To [[pimp]].
#: ''Tony '''punked-out''' Vinny when he was low on smokes.''
# To force [[sodomy]] upon an unwilling partner.
#: ''Tony '''punked''' all his new cell-mates.''
# To [[prank]].
#: ''I got expelled when I '''punked''' the principal.''
# To give up or concede; to act like a [[wimp]].
#: ''Jimmy was going to help me with the prank, but he '''punked-out''' at the last minute.''

====Usage notes====

The relatively tame 21st century usage of ''punk'' was popularized by the American television show [[w:Punk'd|Punk'd]]. Until as recently as the late 20th century, ''punk'' still connoted [[rape]] or submitting to anal rape (''punk-out''). The second use of the term ''punk-out'' is now comparable to acting like a ''[[pussy]]'' and mildly implies submissive behavior in general.

====Synonyms====
*[[WikiSaurus:prostitute|prostitute]]
*[[WikiSaurus:catamite|catamite]]
*[[WikiSaurus:pussy|pussy]]

[[Category:English words with different meanings in different locations]]

[[sl:punk]]
[[vi:punk]]
[[zh:punk]]