==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-push.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

# A [[force]] applied.
#:''Give the door a hard '''push''' if it sticks.''
# A [[big]] [[effort]] or [[rush]].
#:''Some details got lost in the '''push''' to get the project done.''
# A [[marching]] or [[drill]] [[maneuver]] performed by moving a [[formation]] (especially a [[company front]]) [[forward]] or [[toward]] the [[audience]], usually to accompany a dramatic [[climax]] or [[crescendo]] in the music.

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|push|es}}

# To apply a [[force]] to (an object) such that it moves [[away]] from the person applying the force.
# To continually attempt to persuade (a person) into a particular course of action.
# To continually attempt to promote (a point of view).
#:''Stop '''pushing''' the issue - I'm not interested.''
# To promote (a product) in order to try to sell it.
#:''They're '''pushing''' that perfume again.''
#:''There were two men hanging around the school gates today, '''pushing''' drugs.''
# To [[approach]]; to come close.
#:''My old car is '''pushing''' 250,000 miles.''

====Synonyms====
*(''apply a force to''): [[shove]]
*(''continue to attempt to persuade''): [[press]], [[urge]]

====Translations====

'''apply a force to'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[duwen]]
*French: [[pousser]]
*Italian: [[spingere]]
*Ido: Pulsar
*Latin: [[pellere]]
*Old English: [[scufan|scūfan]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[pchnąć]], [[popchnąć]]
*Romanian: [[împinge]], [[apăsa]]
*Slovene: [[potiskati]]
*Spanish: [[empujar]]
*Swahili: [[kusukuma]]
*Telugu: [[నెట్టు]] (neTTu), [[తోయు]] (tOyu)
{{bottom}}

'''continually attempt to persuade (a person)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''continually attempt to promote (a point of view)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''promote (a product)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb|push|es}}

# To apply a [[force]] to an object such that it moves [[away]] from the person applying the force.
#:''You need to '''push''' quite hard to get this door open.''
# To tense the muscles in the [[abdomen]] in order to [[expel]] its contents.
#:''During childbirth, there are times when the [[obstetrician]] advises the woman not to '''push'''.''
# To continue to attempt to persuade a person into a particular course of action.

'''apply force to an object'''
{{top}}
*French: [[pousser]]
*Italian: [[spingere]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''tense the muscles of the abdomen'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''continue to attempt to persuade a person into a particular course of action'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top}}
*[[pedal pushers]]
*[[push off]]<!--also imperative-->
*[[pushover]]
{{mid}}
*[[push-up]]
*[[pushy]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[fr:push]]
[[io:push]]
[[it:push]]
[[hu:push]]
[[pt:push]]
[[ru:push]]
[[fi:push]]
[[zh:push]]