A term used to describe a seemingly pointless task which is necessary to perform a task which allows you to perform another task which, several levels of recursion later, allows you to perform the actual task you wanted to complete in the first place.

== Occurrence ==
'''Yak Shaving''' is encountered in all walks of life. We've all done it, mostly complained when we're doing it, but never had a term for it. It is often seen in software development, during DIY activities, whilst shopping, packing to go on holiday, cleaning the garage... you'll probably ''Yak Shave'' at least once during the day. Next time you're doing something and don't know why, stop and ask yourself what you originally set out to do. More often than not it's because you're ''Yak Shaving'' trying to achieve another task which you started ''N'' tasks previously.

== Example ==
You get up in the morning and go to make a coffee. You open the refrigerator and discover the milk has turned into cheese. So you grab your coat and keys and step out the front door only to discover its raining. Deciding to take the car you open the garage door to get the car out and discover the kids have left their bikes in front of the car. You go to move the bikes and knock a glass jar onto the floor which smashes. Several profanities later you realise you can't leave glass everywhere so you dutifully brush up the smashed glass, move the bikes, get the car out, drive to the shop, buy some milk, drive home, put the car back in the garage, put the bikes in the shed and (after a series of ''Yak Shaving'' events) '''make a coffee'''.

== Original Author ==
It is unclear who originally coined this phrase although [http://projects.csail.mit.edu/gsb/archives/old/gsb-archive/gsb2000-02-11.html this] MIT post claims that a person called ''Carlin Vieri'' did.

--[[User:Seclar|Seclar]] 08:41, 29 November 2005 (UTC)