==English==
===Etymology===
1683, a name applied disparagingly by [[Dutch]] settlers in New Amsterdam ([[New York]]) to English colonists in neighboring Connecticut. It may be from Du. Janke, lit. "Little John," dim. of common personal name Jan; or it may be from Jan Kes familiar form of "John Cornelius," or perhaps an alt. of Jan Kees, dial. variant of Jan Kaas, lit. "John Cheese," the generic nickname the Flemings used for Dutchmen. It originally seems to have been applied insultingly to Dutch, especially freebooters, before they turned around and slapped it on the English. In Eng. a term of contempt (1750s) before its use as a general term for "native of New England" (1765). Shortened form [[Yank#Proper noun|Yank]] in reference to "an [[American"]] first recorded 1778.

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æŋki|-æŋki]]

=== Noun ===
'''Yankee'''
#a native or inhabitant of [[New England]]
#a native or inhabitant of the Northern [[USA]]
#a native or inhabitant of the [[USA]]
#The letter ''Y'' in the [[ICAO spelling alphabet]]
# {{nautical}} A large triangular [[headsail]] used in light or moderate winds and set on the [[fore]] [[topmast]] [[stay]]. Unlike a [[genoa]] it does not fill the whole [[fore triangle]], but is set in combination with the working [[staysail]].
#A [[baseball]] player that plays for the [[w:New York Yankees|New York Yankees]]

==== Translations ====
*Estonian: [[jänki]]
*Finnish: [[jenkki]]
*Russian: [[Янки]]
*Slovak: Yankee
*Spanish: [[yanqui]]

=== See Also ===
* [[Yank]]
* [[Yankeedom]]
* [[Yankeeism]]
* [[Yankee-Doodle]]
* [[yanqui]]
[[Category:Dutch derivations]]