{{See|Yard}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
{{wikipedia}}
*(''UK''): {{IPA|/jɑːd/}}, {{SAMPA|/jA:d}}
*(''US''): {{AHD|yärd}}, {{IPA|/jɑːrd/}}, {{SAMPA|/jA:rd}}

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[geard|ġeard]]'', from Germanic ''*garda-'', from Indo-European ''*gher-'' ‘enclosure’.  Cognate with Dutch ''[[gaard]]'', German ''[[Garten]]'', Swedish ''[[gård]]''.  The Indo-European root is also the source of Latin ''[[hortus]]'', ‘garden’, Russian ''[[город]]'', ‘town’.  Compare '''[[garden]]'''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A small, usually uncultivated area adjoining or (now especially) within the precincts of a house or other building.
# An enclosed area designated for a specific purpose, e.g. on farms, railways etc.
# (''Jamaican'') One’s house or home.

=====Translations=====
'''land around a house'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[حديقة]]}} (hadíeqa) {{f}}
*Chinese: [[院子]] (yuànzi)
*Dutch: [[erf#Dutch|erf]]
*Finnish: [[piha]]
*French: [[cour]] {{f}}
*German: [[Hof]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[cortile]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[庭]] (にわ, niwa)
*Korean: [[마당]] (madang)
*Portuguese: [[cercado]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[двор]] (dvor) {{m}}
*Romanian: [[yard#Romanian|yard]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[patio#Spanish|patio]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[gård]], [[trädgård]], [[tomt]]
{{bottom}}

'''enclosed area for a specific purpose'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Jamaican: one's house or home'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Derived terms=====
''See also'' '''[[Yard]]'''
{{top4}}
*[[apple-yard]]
*[[back-yard]]
*[[barn-yard]]
*[[bone-yard]], [[boneyard]]
*[[brickyard]]
*[[castle yard]]
*[[chapel yard]]
*[[churchyard]]
*[[court-yard]], [[courtyard]]
*[[deer-yard]]
*[[dockyard]]
*[[door-yard]]
*[[dung-yard]]
*[[farmyard]]
*[[fore-yard]]
*[[graveyard]]
{{mid4}}
*[[green-yard]], [[greenyard]]
*[[grip-yard]]
*[[hemp-yard]]
*[[hop-yard]]
*[[inn-yard]]
*[[junk-yard]], [[junkyard]]
*[[kailyard]]
*[[kirkyard]]
*[[knacker's yard]]
*[[liberty of the yard]]
*[[lumber-yard]]
*[[marshaling yard]], [[marshalling yard]]
*[[mast-yard]]
*[[navy-yard]]
*[[olive-yard]]
{{mid4}}
*[[palace yard]]
*[[par-yard]]
*[[poultry-yard]]
*[[press-yard]]
*[[rick-yard]]
*[[rope-yard]]
*[[sale-yard]]
*[[scrapyard]]
*[[shipyard]]
*[[show-yard]]
*[[stable-yard]]
*[[stack-yard]]
*[[steelyard]]
*[[tan-yard]]
*[[vineyard]]
{{mid4}}
*[[yardage]]
*[[yard bird]], [[yardbird]]
*[[yard-boy]]
*[[yard-dike]]
*[[yard-dog]]
*[[yardful]]
*[[yard-grass]]
*[[yardhove]]
*[[Yardie]]
*[[yarding]]
*[[yardman]]
*[[yard-money]]
*[[yard sale]]
*[[yardsman]]
*[[yardswoman]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[gerd|ġerd]]'', from West Germanic.  Cognate with Dutch ''[[gard]]'' ‘twig’, German ''[[Gerte]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{nautical}} A long tapered timber hung by its centre to a [[mast]] to which is [[bent]] a [[topsail]] or [[squaresail]].
# {{nautical}} Any [[spar]] carried aloft.
# A [[staff]], [[rod]] or [[stick]].
# A unit of length equal to three [[feet]] (exactly 0.9144 [[metre]]s in the US and UK).
# (''US slang'') One-hundred dollars.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[yard of ale]]
*[[yardarm]]
*[[yardstick]]

=====Translations=====
'''nautical: tapered timber'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''nautical: any spar carried aloft'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''staff, rod, stick'''
{{top}}
*French: [[verge#French|verge]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''three feet'''
{{top}}
*French: [[yard#French|yard]] {{m}}, [[verge#French|verge]] {{f}} (''Canadian'')
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[iarda]] {{f}}, yard {{f}}
*Spanish: [[yarda]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''US slang: one-hundred dollars'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

----
==French==
===Noun===
{{fr-noun-reg|m}}

#[[yard]] (''unit of length'')

----
==Italian==
===Noun===
{{it-noun-reg|f}}

#[[yard]] (''unit of length'')

====Synonyms====
*[[iarda]]

[[Category:Units of Measure]]

[[ang:yard]]
[[el:yard]]
[[fr:yard]]
[[ko:yard]]
[[io:yard]]
[[it:yard]]
[[nl:yard]]
[[pl:yard]]
[[simple:yard]]
[[fi:yard]]
[[ta:yard]]
[[vi:yard]]
[[zh:yard]]