===Adverb===
'''yes'''

#A word used to show agreement or acceptance. 
#:'' "Yes, you are correct." '' 
#:'' "Yes, you may go to the bathroom now."''
#A word to refer to the affirmative, rather than a negative.
#:''Though because of work commitments, they were hoping for a no, they got a yes.'' 
#In English, ''yes'' can also be used to indicate ''disagreement'' or ''dissent'' if the original statement was negative.  For example, "You don't want it, do you?" and "Don't you want it?" are answered by "yes" if the respondent ''does'' want the item, and ''no'' if he or she does not.  Many languages use a different word for this purpose.

====Synonyms====
[[yea]], [[aye]], [[ay]], [[affirmative]], [[yep]], [[yeah]], [[yup]], [[yah]]

====Translations====
:Arabic: [[?????]] (na?am)
:[[Breton]]: [[ya]] (1), [[eo]], [[geo]] (2)
:Bulgarian: [[??]]
:[[Catalan]]: [[sí]]
:[[Chinese]]: [[?]]?shì),[[?]](duì),[[?]](en) (1)
:Czech: [[ano]]
:Dutch: [[ja]]
:[[Esperanto]]: [[jes]]
:Finnish: [[kyllä]]
:French: [[oui]] (1), [[si]] (2)
:German: [[ja]] (1), [[doch]] (2)
:[[Guarani]]: [[he?]]
:Hebrew: [[??]]
:Hungarian: [[igen]] (1), [[de igen]] (2)
:Icelandic: [[já]]
:[[Interlingua]]:[[si]]
:Italian: [[sì]]
:Japanese: [[??]] (hai) (1, polite), [[??]] (ee) (1, polite), [[??]] (n) (1, informal, not really a word)
:Korean: [[?]] (ye), [[?]] (ne)
:Latenkwa: [[Bikado]]
:Latin: [[ita]], [[ita vero]], [[sic]], [[recte]]
:Norwegian: [[ja]]
:Persian: [[?????]] (?bæle), [[????]] (a¯?re) ''inf''
:Polish: [[tak]]
:Portuguese: [[sim]]
:[[Quechua]]: [[arí]]
:Romanian: [[da]]
:Russian: [[?a]] (da)
:Slovak: [[áno]], [[hej]], [[no#Slovak|no]]
:Spanish: [[sí]]
:Swedish: [[ja]] (1), [[jo]] (2)
:[[Tupinambá]]: [[pá]] (said by men); [[e'?]] (said by both women and men)
:Turkish: [[evet]]
:[[Volapük]]: [[si]]

===Interjection===
'''Yes!'''

#Used to express pleasure, joy, or great excitement.

===Noun===
'''yes''' ([[yeses]])

#An affirmative expression; an answer that shows agreement or acceptance. 
#:''Twenty guests did a yes to our party invitation.'' 
#A vote of support or in favor of something. 
#:''The workers voted on whether to strike, and there were thirty "yeses" and one "no".''<p>

===Verb===
#To agree with, to affirm.
#:''Did he yes the veto?''