=={{en}}==

===Other Spellings===
*[[u]] (''informal'')
*[[j00]] (''[[w:leet|leet]]'')

===Etymology===
From Old English '''[[ēow]]''', which was the accusative/dative plural of '''[[gē]]''' ([[ye]]), the plural of '''[[þū]]''' ([[thou]]) < West Germanic '''[[*iuwiz]]''' < Proto-Indo-European '''[[*ju]]'''.

Note: '''You''' was originally a plural form, the singular being ''[[thou]]''. '''You''' gradually came to be used as the polite singular and was eventually generalized to the singular in all circumstances. The original nominative form was '''[[ye]]''', whilst '''you''' was the objective (accusative and dative) form. ''Ye'' and ''you'' are cognate with German ''[[ihr]]'' and ''[[euch]]'', respectively. ''Ye'' is also cognate with archaic Swedish '''[[i#Swedish|i]]'''. The presence of final '''-r''' in the German form is from an earlier '''-z''', and is mirrored by the final '''-r''''s in German '''er''' and '''wir''', whereas English '''he''' and '''we''' lack the '''-r'''; Dutch and Scandinavian follow English in this respect.

[[Category:Indo-European root *yu-]]

===Pronunciation===
*(''stressed''): yo͞o, /juː/, /<tt>ju:</tt>/
*:'''Homophones''': [[ewe]], [[u]], [[yew]]<!-- eew? -->
*:[[Rhymes:English:-uː|Rhymes: -uː]]
*(''unstressed''): yə, /yə/, /<tt>y@</tt>/

===Personal pronoun===
'''you'''

Second person, singular or plural, nominative or objective (accusative) case.<br> (''Possessive determiner'': [[your]]; ''possessive pronoun'': [[yours]]; ''reflexive'': [[yourself]] [singular] or [[yourselves]] [plural]). ''See'' [[Wiktionary:Inflection Templates]] for other personal pronouns.

#That person or persons who are spoken to, or written to. 
#:''I'll meet you at the bar at six o'clock.'' 
#:''We'll go with you to the game.'' 
#Anyone, [[one]]; an unspecified individual. 
#:''You have to be at least 36 inches high to go on this ride.''

====Translations====
'''you''' (2nd person sg. or pl.)
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: [[انت|أنتَ]] (’ínta) ''m'', [[انت|أنتِ]] (’ínti) ''f'', [[انتما|أنْتُمَا]] (’antumáː) ''dual'', [[انتوا|أنتوا]] (’íntu) ''pl.''
*[[Blackfoot]]: [[kiisto]]
*Bulgarian: [[ти]] (ti) ''sg.'', [[вие]] (vie) ''pl.''
*[[Catalan]]: [[tu#Catalan|tu]] ''sg. familiar'', [[vostè]] ''sg. polite''; [[vós]], [[vosaltres]], [[vostès]] ''pl.''
*Chinese: [[你]] (nǐ, ''familiar''), [[您]] (nín, ''polite'')
*[[Cree]]: [[kiya]]
*{{cs}}: [[ty]]
*Danish: [[du#Danish|du]] ''sg. familiar'', [[I#Danish|I]] ''pl. familiar'', [[De#Danish|De]] ''sg. and pl. polite''.
*Dutch: [[jij]], [[je#Dutch|je]] ''sg. familiar'', [[jullie]] ''pl. familiar'', [[u]] ''pl.''
*[[Dyirbal]]: [[ŋinda]] ''sg.'', [[ŋubalaɖi]] ''dual'', [[ŋuraɖi]] ''pl.''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[vi]], [[ci]] ''sg. familiar''
*[[Fijian]]: [[iko]] ''(sg.)'', [[kemudrau]] ''(dual)'', [[kemudou]] ''([[paucal]])'', [[kemunii]] ''(pl.)''
*Finnish: [[sinä]] ''sg. familiar''; [[te]] ''pl. or polite''
*French: [[tu#French|tu]] ''sg. familiar''; [[vous]] ''pl. or polite''
*German: [[du#German|du]] (''sg. familiar''), [[ihr]] (''pl. familiar''); [[Sie]] (''polite'')
*[[Guaraní]]: [[nde]] ''sg.'', [[peẽ]] ''pl.''
*[[Hausa]]: ''independent forms:'' [[kái]] ''m'', [[kée]] ''f'', [[kúu]] ''pl.''
*Hawaiian: [[‘oe]] ''sg.'', [[‘olua]] ''dual'', [[‘oukou]] ''pl.''
*Hebrew: [[אתה]] (attáh) ''m'', [[את]] (att) ''f'', [[אתם]] (attém) ''m/pl.'', [[אתן]] (attén) ''f/pl.''
*Hindi: [[तु]] (tū, ''sg. familiar''), [[आप]] (āp, ''pl. or polite'')
*Hungarian: [[te]] ''(familiar)'', [[ön]] ''(polite)'', [[ti]] ''(familiar plural)'', [[önök]] ''(polite plural)''
*Icelandic: [[þú]] ''sg.''; [[þið]] ''pl.''
*Indonesian: [[engkau]], [[engkau|kau]], [[kamu]] ''sg. familiar''; [[Anda]], [[Saudara]], [[Bapak]] / [[Ibu]] ''sg. polite''; [[kalian]] ''pl. familiar''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[tu#Interlingua|tu]] ''sg. familiar'', [[vos]] ''pl. or polite''
*Irish: [[tú]] ''sg. conjunctive'', [[thú]] ''sg. disjunctive'', [[sibh]] ''pl.''
*Italian: [[tu#Italian|tu]] ''sg. familiar''; [[Lei]] ''pl.''; [[voi]] ''pl. or polite''
*Japanese:
:''generic'' (''if used for a superior, discourteous''): [[貴方]] ([[あなた]], anáta; ''sg.''); [[貴方達]] ([[あなたたち]], anata-tachí; ''pl.'')
:''honorific plural'': [[貴方方]] ([[あなたがた]], anata-gatá)
:''slightly rude'': [[お前]] ([[おまえ]], omaé; ''sg.''); [[お前達]] ([[おまえたち]], omaé-tachi; ''pl.'')
:''slightly rude'': [[手前]] ([[てまえ]], temaé)
:''horribly insulting'': [[貴様]] ([[きさま]], kisamá; ''sg.''); [[貴様等]] ([[きさまら]], kisamá-ra; ''pl.'') (''used to be highly formal'')
:''very familiar'': [[あんた]] (ánta) (''insulting if used wrongly'')
:''intimate; in business, used toward subordinates'': [[君]] ([[きみ]], kimí; ''sg.''); [[君達]] ([[きみたち]], kimi-tachí; ''pl''.)<!-- Maybe we need a separate article for the case of ja pronouns... perhaps the "horribly insulting" ones should be removed just for sake's sake... there should probably be a better term than 'rude' here too. -->
:Note: ''In Japanese, all of these words are actually nouns and are not normally required''.
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Korean: [[너]] (neo)
:''pronomial adjective'': [[네]] (ne)
:''reflexive'': [[너자신]] (neo-jasin)
:[[너희]] (neo-hwi) is used to form plural, i.e., 너희'''들'''
*[[Kurdish]]: [[tu]] ''sg.'', [[hûn]] ''pl.'', [[Hûn]] ''polite''
*Latin: [[tu]] ''sg.'', [[vos]] ''pl.''
*Latvian: [[tu]] ''sg. familiar'', [[Tu]] ''sg. familiar, but polite'', [[Jūs]] ''sg. polite''; [[jūs]] ''pl.'', [[Jūs]] ''pl. polite''
*[[Lingua Franca Nova]]: [[tu]] ''sg.'', [[vos]] ''pl.''
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[giin]] ''sg'', [[giinawaa]] ''pl''
*Persian: [[تو]] (to, ''sg. familiar''), [[شما|شُما]] (ʃomā, ''pl. or polite'') <!-- accusatives in را-‏ (-rā): [[ترا|تُرا]] (torā), [[شما را|شُما را]] (ʃomā rā), should go on the relevant pages -->
*Portuguese: [[tu]] ''sg. familiar'', [[você]] ''sg.'', [[vocês]] ''pl.'', [[vós]] ''pl. polite''
*[[Quechua]]: [[qam]] ''sg.'', [[qamkuna]] ''pl.''
*Romanian: [[tu]] ''sg. familiar'', [[dumneata]] ''sg. polite'', [[dumneavoastră]] ''sg. or pl. polite'',  <!-- [[te]] acc. -->  [[voi]] ''pl. familiar''
*Russian: [[ты]] (ty, ''familiar''), <!-- acc [[тебя]] (tebjá) --> [[Вы]] (Vy, ''sg. polite''), <!-- acc [[Вас]] (Vas) --> [[вы]] (vy, ''pl.'') <!-- acc [[вас]] (vas) -->
*Scottish Gaelic: [[thu]] ''sg. familiar non-emphatic'', [[thusa]] ''sg. familiar emphatic'', [[sibh]] ''pl. & sg. formal non-emphatic'', [[sibhse]] ''pl. & sg. formal emphatic''
*Slovak: [[ty]] ''sg. familiar'', [[vy]] ''polite or pl.''
*Slovenian: [[ti]] ''sg. familiar'', <!-- acc [[te]]/[[tebe]] --> [[vi]] ''polite or pl.''
*Spanish: [[tú]], [[vos]] ''sg. familiar'', [[Usted]] ''sg. polite'', [[Ustedes]] ''pl.'', [[vosotros]] ''m/pl. familiar'', [[vosotras]] ''f/pl. familiar (Castilian)''
*[[Swahili]]: [[wewe]] ''sg.'', [[ninyi]] ''pl.''
*Swedish: [[du#Swedish|du]] ''sg.'', <!-- acc [[dig]], ''colloquially'' [[dej]] --> [[ni]] ''pl. or polite'', <!-- acc [[er#Swedish|er]], [[dig#Swedish|dig]] (also used in polite form) -->
*[[Tagalog]]: ''singular:'' [[mo]] ''([[ng]] form)'', [[iyo]] ''([[sa]] form)'', [[ka]] / [[ikaw]] ''(unmarked forms)''
:''plural:'' [[ninyo]] ''([[ng]] form)'', [[inyo]] ''([[sa]] form)'', [[kayo]] ''(unmarked form)''
*Thai: [[คุณ]] (khoon) ''sg/pl'', [[เธอ]] (thuuhr) ''sg (familiar, intimate)'', [[ท่าน]] (thààn) ''sg (formal, polite)'', [[ตัว]] (duaa) ''sg (cutesy)'', [[เรา]] (rao) ''sg (colloquial)''
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[yu]] ''sg.''; [[yupela]] ''pl.''
*Turkish: [[sen]] ''sg. familiar'', [[siz]] ''polite or pl.'' <!-- acc [[seni]], [[sana]], [[siz]] -->
*Urdu: [[تو]] (tū, ''sg. familiar''), [[اپ|آپ]] (āp, ''polite or pl.'')
*Vietnamese: [[chị]], [[ông]], [[em#Vietnamese|em]] (''sg. or pl. polite'') [[anh]], [[bà]], [[con#Vietnamese|con]],  [[bạn]] (all ''sg.''); [[ngươi]], [[mày]] (''sg.; rude, unless to a friend or subordinate''); [[quý vị]] (''sg. or pl.; neutral''); [[bác]], [[dì]] and other words expressing familial relationship (''sg.''; with [[các]], ''pl.''); [[các anh]], [[các chị]], [[các ông]], [[các bà]], [[các con]], [[các em]], [[các bạn]] (all ''pl.''; [[các ngươi]], [[các mày]] (''pl.; rude, unless to a friend or subordinate'')
*[[!Xũ]]: [[i!a]] ''(the [[Khoisan]] "!" represents a [[w:Postalveolar click|postalveolar click]])''
|}
|}

'''you, one, people, any person indefinitely'''
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Esperanto]]: [[oni]]
*French: [[on#French|on]]
*German: [[man#German|man]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[se#Portuguese|se]]
*Spanish: [[se#Spanish|se]]
|}
|}
----

== Japanese ==
=== {{Romaji}} ===
'''you''' ([[よう]])

# Romanization of [[酔う]] ''(to become [[drunk]] or [[tipsy]])''.

===See also===
*[[yō]]

[[Category:English second person pronouns]]

[[fr:you]]
[[la:You]]
[[ja:you]]
[[pl:You]]
[[ru:You]]
[[sv:you]]