* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index| Radical]] Number 94''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index 犬|犬]]+0 stroke

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index|Stroke number]]''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index 4|4]]
*: Although the alternative form clearly shows only three strokes, it is still counted as four strokes when using a Chinese dictionary.

* '''Stroke order''': 

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese four corner index|Four-Corner System]]''': 4303<sub>0</sub>

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese Cangjie index|Cangjie input]]''': [[戈]][[大]] (IK)

* '''Graphical Significance and Origin''': ([[象形]]) the dot is ear.
*: (犭: A dog that is up on his hind legs.)

* '''Common Meaning'''
*# [[dog]]
*# radical number 94

* '''Alternate form(s)''': [[犭]]

----

== [[Chinese]] [[Hanzi]] ==

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[Mandarin]]'''
*** '''[[Pinyin]]''': quǎn (quan3)
*** '''[[Wade-Giles]]''': ch'üan<sup>3</sup>
*** '''[[Yale]]''': chwan
** '''[[Cantonese]]'''
*** '''[[Jyutping]]''':
*** '''[[Penkyamp]]''': 
*** '''[[Yale]]''': hyun2

* '''Example Words''': 
** [[鷹犬]] (ying1 quan3) "dogs that hunt eagle"
** [[警犬]] (jing3 quan3) "police dog"
** [[黃犬音]] (huang2 quan3 yin1) "news"
** [[犬齒]] (quan3chi3) "canine tooth", a.k.a. [[犬牙]] (quan3 ya2) or [[虎牙]] (fu3ya2)

* '''Other info''': &#29356; is the 94th radical in the Chinese dictionary.  Compound characters such as [[&#29383;]] mostly use the alternative form at the left of the character.  Most represent something to do with dogs or other animals. A smaller proportion (e. g. [[&#29376;]]) use the primary form at the right of the character.  A few even show both forms: in [[&#29508;]] which means "prison" or "litigation"; "words" ([[&#35328;]])  stand between two dogs to keep them from biting each other.

* '''Style''': [[traditional Chinese]]
** '''[[simplified Chinese | Simplified]] equivalent''': none

----

== [[Japanese]] [[Kanji]] ==

* '''Readings'''
** '''[[On]]''': [[けん]] (ken)
** '''[[Kun]]''': [[いぬ]] (inu)

* '''Example words''':
** [[警察犬]] (けいさつけん, keisatsu-ken) "police dog"
** [[盲導犬]] (もうどうけん, mōdō-ken) "guide dog" (for visually impaired person)

* '''Other info''': 

----


== [[Korean]] [[Hanja]] ==

* '''[[Hangeul]]''': 견 (gyeon). 

* '''[[Eum-hun]] Reading''': 개 견 (gae gyeon) (/kE:/ < Middle Korean /kahi/)

* '''Example Words''': 
** [[투견]] [鬪犬] (tugyeon) "fighting dog"
** [[견공]] [犬公] (gyeon-gong) "dog"

* '''Romanizations''':
** [[Revised Romanization of Korea]] gyeon
** [[McCune-Reischauer]] ky&#335;n
** [[Yale romanization of Korean]] kyen

----

== Dictionary Information ==

* KangXi: 0705.270
* Morobashi: 20234
* Dae Jaweon: 1118.140
* Hanyu Da Zidian: 21331.010

== Technical Information ==

* '''Unicode''':
** Hex: 72AC
** Decimal: 29356
* '''Big5''':
** Hex: A4FC
** Decimal: 42236
[[pl:犬]]