{{see|Jack}}
{{webster}}

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''het jack''', ''n'' (''plural:'' jacks, jacken)
# [[jacket]]
[[Category:Dutch nouns]]

----

==English==
{{rfc|translations are in the wrong place, at the wrong level and they need to use the new "trans-top", "trans-mid" and "trans-bottom" templates}}
===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|jăk}}, {{IPA|/dʒæk/}}, {{SAMPA|/dZ{k/}}
*{{audio|en-us-jack.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æk|-æk]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A device used to raise and (temporarily) support a heavy object.
#:''car jack''
#:''pneumatic jack''
# (''[[playing cards]]'') The card ranking between the [[ten]] and [[queen]] of any suit, with a picture of a knave or prince on its face; often with value 11.
# A male [[ass]].
#A socket for electrical equipment.
#:''telephone jack''
# One of many X-shaped metal structures.
# A target ball in [[bowls]], etc.
# (''colloquial, short for'' '''jackshit''') Nothing.
# A small [[flag]] at the [[bow]] of a [[ship]]
# A [[coarse]] and cheap [[medieval]] coat of [[defense]], especially one made of [[leather]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1786''':  The [[aketon]], [[gambeson]], [[vambasium]], and jack were military [[vestment]]s, calculated for the [[defence]] of the body, differing little from each other, except in their names, their materials and construction were nearly the same, the authorities quoted in the notes, [[shew]] they were all composed of many folds of linen, stuffed with [[cotton]], [[wool]] or [[hair]], [[quilt]]ed, and commonly covered with [[leather]], made of [[buck]] or [[doe]] skin. &mdash; Francis Grose, ''A Treatise on Ancient Armour and Weapons'', page 15.
#{{two-up}} A penny with a [[head]] on both sides, used for cheating.  (Reference: Sidney J. Baker, ''The Australian Language'', second edition, 1966, chapter XI section 3, page 243.)
#{{slang}} [[money]]
# A common name for the freshwater [[pike]], [[green pike]] or [[pickerel]]
# Large California [[rockfish]]
# An order of marine fish in the ''[[Carangidae]]'' family

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#''(transitive)'' To use a jack.
#: ''He '''jacked''' the car up so that he could replace the brake pads.''
#''(transitive)'' {{baseball}} ''(slang)'' To hit the ball hard.
#: ''Jones '''jacks''' it into the alley, clearing the bases.''
#''(transitive)'' {{baseball}} ''(slang)'' To hit a home run.
#''(transitive)'' To steal.
#: ''Someone '''jacked''' my car last night!''

===Interjection===
'''jack'''

#{{baseball}} ''(slang)'' A player has hit a home run
#:'' '''Jack!''' Tie score.''

====Synonyms====
*(''playing card''): [[knave]]
*(''male ass''): [[jackass]]

====Translations====
'''device for raising and supporting a heavy object'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[donkraft]]
*Dutch: [[krik]] ''f''
*Esperanto: [[kriko]]
*Finnish: [[tunkki]], [[nosturi]]
*French: [[cric#French|cric]] ''m''
*Italian: [[cric#Italian|cric]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[gato]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''playing card'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[knægt]]
*Dutch: [[boer]] ''m'', [[zot]] ''m'' (''Flemish'')
*Esperanto: [[bubo]], [[fanto]], [[paĝio]]
*Finnish: [[sotilas]], [[jätkä]], [[solttu]]
*French: [[valet#French|valet]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[fante]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[valete]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[валет]] (valét) ''m''
*Slovene: [[fant]] ''m'', [[pob]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[knekt]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''male ass'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[æselhingst]]
*Dutch: [[ezel]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[azeno]]
*French: [[âne]] ''m''
*Italian: [[asino]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''electrical socket'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[stik]]
*Dutch: [[stopkontakt]] ''n'' (mains), [[aansluitpunt]] ''n'' (connector), [[aansluiting]] ''f'' (connection), [[stekker]] ''m'' (plug)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''X-shaped metal structure'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''target ball in bowls'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slang: nothing'''
''See'' '''[[jackshit]]'''

'''flag at bow of ship'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[gøs]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''coarse medieval coat'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[jekker]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[jako]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[kluk]], [[spodek]] ''m'' (2)
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: dolník ''m'' (2)

====See also====
*[[bootjack]]
*[[cheap-jack]]
*[[Jack]]
*[[jack in]]
*[[jack off]]
*[[jack plug]]
*[[one-eyed jack]]
*[[jacked]]
*[[cottonmouth jack]]
*[[whitetongue jack]]
*[[blackfin jack]]
*[[yellowfin jack]]
*[[bicolor jack]]
*[[Senegal jack]]
*[[horse-eye jack]]
*[[Crevalle jack]]
*[[green jack]]

[[Category:Card games]]
[[Category:Fish]]

[[fr:jack]]
[[it:jack]]
[[nl:jack]]
[[pt:jack]]
[[ru:jack]]
[[fi:jack]]
[[vi:jack]]
[[zh:jack]]