'''Janner''' refers to a person from the city of [[Plymouth]] in south-west [[Devon]], and the dialect and accent of that person. '''Janner''' is to [[Plymouth]] what [[Scouse]] is to [[Liverpool]].

Unlike better-known English regional accents like [[Scouse]], [[Geordie]] and [[Cockney#London_speech|Cockney]], Janner is rarely mentioned or recognised outside the Plymouth area. Because of this lack of recognition, little if any research has been undertaken into the [[dialect]] and [[accent]].

Even among native speakers of Janner, the word has some pejorative connotations. 

Key features are:

* Adding the letter 's' to the end of proper names, especially of businesses. For example, "Asdas". Although not uncommon in English generally, in Janner is it taken to extremes not heard elsewhere.
* Pronouncing "le" at the end of words as if were "oe". For example, the Plymouth store [[Dingles]] is pronounced "Dingoes".
* Merger of "th" with "ff", most noticeably in the word "Plymuff". Often considered a feature of Cockney speech, this characteristic can be heard in recordings of Plymothians born during the [[1920s]].
* Frequent use of the words "'ere" and "innit" in informal conversation, presumably meaning "here" or "ear" and "isn't it" respectively.  For example "'Ere nan, let's have a bite of that [[pasty]], innit?"

The name is believed to be a derivative of the word "janitor", which, when said quickly in the native accent, sounds like "janner". This is due to the large proportion of Plymouthians who enter the janatorial profession upon leaving school at 14: the legal age of consent in the city.  

It is hoped that in order for a more suitable person to populate the region, the janner will soon be entirely exterminated from its native Plymouth habitat. In preparation for this, a lethal strain of CJD (the human form of [[mad cow disease]]) will be added to the ingredients used in the making of Dewdney pasties, both Ron and Ivor. Talks are underway to extend the contamination to Oggy Oggy and Brimbles pasties, but negotiations stalled after Gareth John staged a naked protest outside Brimbles Bakery.

Notable janners include Wally James and Matthew Williamson.