==English==
===Noun===
'''jazz''' (''[[uncountable]]'')

# {{music}} A musical art form rooted in West African cultural and musical expression and in the [[African American]] [[blues]] tradition, with diverse influences over time, commonly characterized by [[blue note]]s, [[syncopation]], [[swing]], [[call]] and [[response]], [[polyrhythm]]s and [[improvisation]].
#The (in)tangible substance that goes into the makeup of a thing.
#:''What '''jazz''' were you referring to earlier?''
#:''What is all this '''jazz''' lying around?''
# Unspecified thing(s).
#:''I'm just going down to the shops and '''jazz''''' = I am off to purchase items and etcetera.
#(''with positive terms'') Of excellent quality, the genuine article.
#:''That show was the '''jazz'''!'' = That musical concert/television program was most enjoyable.
#:''This risotto is simply the '''jazz'''.'' = This risotto was cooked in the classic manner.
# Nonsense.
#:''Stop talking '''jazz'''.''
====Translations====
*Chinese: [[爵士]] (juéshì)
*French: [[jazz]] {{m}} (1)
*Hebrew: [[ג'אז]] (jaz)
*Hungarian: [[dzsessz]]

===Verb===
'''jazz'''

# To make gaudy and bright.
#:'''''Jazz''' it up a bit.'' = It is boring.
# To give a rhythm/melody reminiscent of Jazz.
#:'''''Jazz''' it up a bit.'' = It is boring.
# To complicate.
#:''Don't '''jazz''' it too much!'' = Be careful, it was good to start with!
# To destroy.
#:''You've gone and '''jazzed''' it now!'' = It is ruined.
# To distract/pester.
#:''Stop '''jazzing''' me!'' = Leave me alone.
====Related terms====
*[[jazzer]]
*[[jazzy]]
*[[acid jazz]]

[[af:jazz]]
[[de:jazz]]
[[et:jazz]]
[[el:jazz]]
[[fr:jazz]]
[[io:jazz]]
[[it:jazz]]
[[pl:jazz]]
[[vi:jazz]]
[[zh:jazz]]