==Bosnian==

===Etymology===
Short form of [[jest]], [[jeste]], from Old Church Slavonic [[єстъ]] (estĭ).

===Alternative spellings===
*[[је]] ''Cyrillic''
<!-- The Cyrillic chars look similar, possibly identical, but they're encoded differently -->

===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
| [[w:IPA|IPA]] 
|rowspan=2| /je/
|-
| [[w:X-SAMPA|X-SAMPA]] 
|}

===Verb===
''je''
# ''[[clitic]]'' third person singular, present tense of [[biti]] 'to be'.

===Auxiliary Verb===
# ''[[clitic]]'' third person singular, used in forming past tenses with -l participles.

====Translations====
''see under'' '''[[is]]'''

----
==Czech==
===Verb===
'''je'''
# third person singular of [[být]], 'to be'.

----
==Dutch==
[[Category:Dutch personal pronouns]]
[[Category:Dutch possessive pronouns]]
[[Category:Dutch reflexive pronouns]]
===Personal pronoun===
'''je'''

# ''Second-person singular, subjective, mute form:'' [[you]].
#: ''Wat doe je daar?'' &mdash; What are you doing there?
# ''Second-person singular, objective, mute form:'' [[you]].
#: ''Ik doe dit wel voor je.'' &mdash; I'll do this for you.
# ''Second-person plural, subjective, mute form:'' [[you]] (''plural'').
#: ''Wat doe je daar?'' &mdash; What are you doing there?
# ''Second-person plural, objective, mute form:'' [[you]] (''plural'').
#: ''Ik doe dit wel voor je.'' &mdash; I'll do this for you.

====Related terms====
: ''See [[Wiktionary:Dutch inflection#Pronouns|Wiktionary:Dutch inflection]]''

===Possessive pronoun===
'''je'''

# ''Second-person singular, mute form:'' [[your]].
#: ''Neem je boek en maak die oefening.'' &mdash; Take your book and make that exercise.
# ''Second-person plural, mute form:'' [[your]] (''plural'').
#: ''Neem je boek en maak die oefening.'' &mdash; Take your book and make that exercise.

====Related terms====
: ''See [[Wiktionary:Dutch inflection#Pronouns|Wiktionary:Dutch inflection]]''

===Reflexive pronoun===
'''je'''

# ''Second-person singular:'' [[yourself]].
#: ''Heb je je gewassen?'' &mdash; Did you wash yourself?
# ''Second-person plural:'' [[yourselves]].
#: ''Hebben jullie je goed voorbereid?'' &mdash; Have you all prepared yourselves well?

====Related terms====
: ''See [[Wiktionary:Dutch inflection#Pronouns|Wiktionary:Dutch inflection]]''

----

==Esperanto==
===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
| [[w:IPA|IPA]] 
|rowspan=2| /je/
|-
| [[w:X-SAMPA|X-SAMPA]] 
|}

===Preposition===
'''je'''

# with indetermined meaning

====Related expressions====
*[[je la tria]]
*[[je mia bedaŭro]]

[[Category:Esperanto prepositions]]
[[Category:Esperanto BRO1]]
----

==French==
===Etymology===
Old French [[gié]], '''je''', from Latin [[ego]], from Proto-Indo-European ''*éǵoH''.  Near cognates include Spanish [[yo]] and Italian [[io]].  Further cognates include Ancient Greek [[ἐγώ]].

===Pronunciation===
{| border=1 cellpadding=5
| [[w:IPA|IPA]] || /ʒə/
|-
| [[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]] || /Z@/
|}

===Personal pronoun===
'''je''' (''object'' '''[[me]]''', ''emphatic'' '''[[moi]]''')

# first person singular, subject case, [[I]].

----

==German==
===Etymology===
Possibly from common Germanic ''*jai'', from Proto-Indo-European ''*yāi'', extended from a pronominal root ''*i-''; near cognates including English [[yea]] and Gothic [[𐌾𐌰𐌹]] "truly".  

===Adverb===
'''je'''

# [[ever]]

====Related expressions====
*[[je länger je lieber]]
*[[je nachdem]]

----
==Slovak==
===Verb===
:'''je'''
# [[third person]] [[singular]] of '''[[byť#Slovak|byť]]''' (''to [[be]]''), i.e. ''[[is]]''
===Verb===
:'''je'''
# [[third person]] [[singular]] of '''[[jesť#Slovak|jesť]]''' (''to [[eat]]''), i.e. ''[[eat]]s''

[[de:je]]
[[et:je]]
[[es:je]]
[[fr:je]]
[[ko:je]]
[[io:je]]
[[la:je]]
[[nl:je]]
[[ja:je]]
[[pl:je]]
[[pt:je]]
[[ru:je]]
[[fi:je]]
[[sv:je]]
[[zh:je]]