==English==

===Etymology 1===
Compare [[gear]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# ''(Nautical)'' A gear; a tackle. 
# ''(Nautical)(plural)''. An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship. 

====Derived terms====
*'''Jeer capstan''', (Nautical): an extra [[capstan]] usually placed between the foremast and mainmast.

===Etymology 2===
Perhaps a corruption of cheer to salute with cheers, taken in an ironical sense; or more probably from Dutch ''[[gekscheren]]'' to jeer, literally, to shear the fool; [[gek]] a fool (see [[geck]]) + ''[[scheren]]'' to shear. See [[shear]], verb

====Intransitive verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To utter sarcastic or scoffing reflections; to speak with mockery or derision; to use taunting language; to scoff; as, to jeer at a speaker.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*But when he saw her toy and gibe and '''jeer'''. - [[Spenser]]

=====Synonyms=====
*To [[sneer]]; [[scoff]]; [[flout]]; [[gibe]]; [[mock]]

=====Translations=====
'''scoff or mock'''
*French: [[railler]], [[moquer]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[derider]] 
*Spanish: [[burlarse]] 
*[[Volapük]]: [[kofön]] 

====Transitive verb====
{{en-verb}}

# To treat with scoffs or derision; to address with jeers; to taunt; to flout; to mock at.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*And if we can not jeer them, we jeer ourselves. B. Jonson.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A railing remark or reflection; a scoff; a taunt; a biting jest; a flout; a jibe; mockery.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Midas, exposed to all their '''jeers''', Had lost his art, and kept his ears. - [[Swift]]

=====Translations=====
*French: [[raillerie]] {{f}}, [[moquerie]] {{f}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[burla]], [[crito]] de [[derision]] 
*Spanish: [[burlería]] 
*[[Volapük]]: [[kof]]

===See also===
*[[deride]]
*[[mock]]
*[[ridicule]]

----

==Somali==

===Noun===
'''jeer'''

# [[hippopotamus|Hippopotamus]]
<!--Not sure that the translation is totally right, that's why I leave it hidden
#:''Jeertu way jeclayd dhexqaadka dhoobaada'' - The hippopotamus loved wallowing. -->

[[vi:jeer]]
[[zh:jeer]]