==English==
===Alternative spellings===
* [[jefe politico]] ''(without accents)''

===Etymology===
Spanish [[jefe político]] (lit., "political chief").

===Noun===
'''jefe político''' ''(plural: see usage note)''

# [[governor]] of a [[province]].
# [[police]] [[official]] ''(in [[Central America]])''.
#''(obsolete)'' right-hand man of a state governor ''(in [[Mexico]])''.

===Usage note===
Both the original Spanish plural ''[[jefes políticos]]'' and a more Anglicized plural ''[[jefe políticos]]'' are in use. 

As ''[[jefe]]'' “chief” is the head noun, the form to be advocated by traditional grammar is ''[[jefes político]]'' (cf. [[passers-by]], [[brothers-in-law]], etc.) but this form does not appear to be in wide use. 

===Quotations===
* '''1993,''' Knut Walter, ''The Regime of Anastasio Somoza'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=z_YDlOmJLo4C&pg=PA151&lpg=PA151&sig=HbufDQMPAeqiZOolVcTRsN44uac]
*: The '''jefe político''' even objected to the term ''concentración de masas,'' defining it as Marxist in its origins and therefore subversive.
* '''1995,''' Jeffrey L Gould, ''To Die in This Way'' [http://print.google.com/print?id=b0HXTV96WUgC&pg=PA189&lpg=PA189&sig=XHj9ArLMbJSoe_gSbLyMiczXbeU]
*: First, we see a high degree of deference to and dependence on the '''jefe político'''.
* '''1997,''' Don E Dumond, ''The Machete and the Cross'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=S7XIkk91g08C&pg=PA90&lpg=PA90&sig=JM5a0JqSXxXQ3PixepRNa6JxD-I]
*: A fresh column of troops from the capital and a new '''''jefe político''''' restored some order, forcing Novelo to hide in the countryside. 
* '''2000,''' Mark Pendergrast, ''Uncommon Grounds'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=Da_d7SKHVGIC&pg=PA33&lpg=PA33&sig=6vLqN-mGF3hM5G5TXZwgB4Ulxi0]
*: The Indians sometimes petitioned the '''''jefe políticos''''' (governors) for help.
* '''2004,''' Francie R Chassen-Lopez, ''From Liberal to Revolutionary Oaxaca'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=knyqFCxlVAYC&pg=PA429&lpg=PA429&sig=z7sYbFbbI0CfpDS4gqEw0GMnoQ0]
*: In order to keep this peace, '''jefes políticos''' could call on armed forces to guarantee the state’s order and security.