==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-jelly.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛli|-ɛli]]

===Noun===
'''jelly''' ([[uncountable]] and [[countable]]; ''plural'' [[jellies]])

#(''UK'') A [[dessert]] made by boiling [[gelatin]], sugar and some flavouring (often derived from fruit) and allowing it to [[set]]; often called [[Jell-O]]&reg; in the US.
#(''US'') a sweet gelatinous substance derived from fruit juices and [[pectin]]
#*'''1945:''' [[w:Fannie Merritt Farmer|Fannie Merritt Farmer]] and [[w:Wilma Lord Perkins]] revisor, ''The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book'', Eighth edition - Perfect '''jelly''' is of appetizing flavor; beautifully colored and translucent; tender enough to cut easily with a spoon, yet firm enough to hold its shape when turned from the glass.
#*'''1975:''' [[w:Irma S. Rombauer|Irma S. Rombauer]] and [[w:Marion Rombauer Becker|Marion Rombauer Becker]], ''The Joy of Cooking'' 5th revision - '''Jelly''' has great clarity.  Two cooking processes are involved.  First, the juice alone is extracted from the fruit.  Only that portion thin and clear enough to drip through a cloth is cooked with sugar until sufficiently firm to hold its shape.  It is never stiff and never gummy.
#(''UK'') Jam that has been sieved to remove pieces of fruit before being allowed to set.
# {{zoology}} Short for [[jellyfish]].
#(''slang'') A large [[backside]], especially a woman's.
#:''Check out that girl shaking her jelly!''

====Related terms====
*[[jelly baby]]
*[[jelly bean]]
*[[Jell-O]]
*[[royal jelly]]
*[[jellyfish]]

====Translations====
<!--DefA-->'''dessert'''
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[gelatina]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[hyytelö]]
*French: [[gelée]] ''f'' 
*Italian: [[gelatina]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*German: [[Gelee]] ''n'', [[Sulz]]
*Romanian: [[jeleu]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[gelatina]] ''f''
*Russian: [[желе]] ''n''
{{bottom}}

<!--DefB-->'''jam'''
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[melmelada]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[hillo]]
*French: [[confiture]] ''f''
*Italian: [[marmellata]] ''f''
*German: [[Marmelade]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[cylon]]
*Romanian: [[marmeladă]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[mermelada]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[sylt]], [[marmelad]]
*Russian: [[джем]] ''m'', [[мармелад]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

<!--DefC-->'''sieved jam'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[marmeladi]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[gelatina]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

<!--DefD-->'''large backside'''
{{top}}
*French: gros cul ''m'' <!-- a gloss rather than a set phrase and so is not wikified-->
*Italian: [[culone]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[жопа]] ''f''
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English nouns]]

[[fr:jelly]]
[[ko:jelly]]
[[io:jelly]]
[[it:jelly]]
[[hu:jelly]]
[[simple:jelly]]
[[fi:jelly]]
[[zh:jelly]]