{{rfv}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈdʒɪŋɡlɪʃ/}}
===Alternative spellings===
*[[Jinglish]]
===Etymology===
{{blend|Japanese|English}}; compare [[Singlish]], [[Yinglish]], etc.
===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# [[Japanese]]-influenced [[English]], especially when nonstandard or ungrammatical.
#*'''1997,''' James W. Rinehart, Christopher Huxley & David Robertson, ''Just Another Car Factory?: Lean Production and Its Discontents''
#*:That this company is half Japanese-owned is obvious. Japanese words spelled out in English (what someone referred to as “'''Jenglish'''”) are used and posted throughout the plant. 
#*'''1998,''' Robert Brenner & Gregory Capelo, ''VCR Troubleshooting & Repair''
#*:Since many VCRs are designed and built in Japan, a mixture of Japanese-to-English writing style sometimes called “Japanenglish” or “'''Jenglish'''” is often found in much documentation. This makes some of the expressions difficult to understand.
#*'''1999,''' [http://www.daninjapan.com/jenglish/index.html Dan in Japan: jenglish] (website)
#*:What is '''Jenglish''' (pronounced jing-lish)? It's all of the funny English in Japan that you see on signs, books, T-shirts, vending machines... it's everywhere. ... it doesn't quite have that "native English speaker" nuance.
#*'''2001,''' Nancy Brown Diggs, ''Looking Beyond the Mask: When American Women Marry Japanese Men''
#*:She also thinks that “being so close to the culture has ruined my English. I have had to choose easier words, shorter sentences, ... We call it ‘'''Jinglish''',’ Japanese-English.”
===Synonyms===
*[[Engrish]]