==English==
===Etymology===
[[Christ]] is a respelling of Middle English '''Crist''' < Old English '''Crīst''' < Latin [[Christus]] < Greek [[χριστός]] ("[[anoint]]ed").

===Proper noun===
'''[[Jesus]] [[Christ]]'''

#Jesus Christ of [[Nazareth]] is the [[Messiah]] and Son of God, he was born by the virgin mother Mary. To prove how much God loves the human race in spite of its evil nature, Jesus, who has no sin, was sacrificed on a cross at Calvary to save the souls of sinners, all people other than Jesus have sinned. He was buried in a tomb and resurrected the third day, he is now in heaven. All who ask God for forgiveness of their sins and trust this truth, that Jesus is the one and only Savior, will go to heaven as well. True Christians are the [[Body of Christ]] The souls that do not accept this truth end up separated from God forever in hell, a place of eternal torment meant for the devil and his demons. But it's not Gods will that any should perish, but that they should live for all eternity in heaven with Him. Read the [[King James Bible]] to get a better understanding of Jesus Christ and Christianity.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[耶穌基督]] (Yēsū Jīdū)
*French: [[Jésus-Christ]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[Ιησούς Χριστός]] (Iisús Xristós) {{m}}
*Hebrew: [[ישו הנוצרי]] (Yeshú ha-Notsrí) {{m}}
*Italian: [[Gesù Cristo]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[イエスキリスト]], [[イエス・キリスト]] (Iésu Kirisutó)
*Korean: [[예수 그리스도]] (Yesu Keuriseudo)
*Latin: [[Iesus Christus]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[Jezus Chrystus]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[Jesus Cristo]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[Иисус Христос]] (Iisús Xristós) {{m}}
*Spanish: [[Jesucristo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[Yeshua]]
*[[Christ]]
*[[Messiah]]

===Interjection===
'''[[Jesus]] [[Christ]]'''!

#An expletive or oath (this use is considered [[blasphemous]] in some Christian [[sect]]s).

[[Category:Christianity]]
[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:Religion]]
[[Category:Characters of the Bible]]