==English==
===Etymology===
Extension of [[Jesus Christ]] with a fantastical middle initial, perhaps derived from a reading of [[ΙΗΣ|ΙΗϹ]], a Greek-alphabet abbreviation for Jesus ('''ΙΗΣ'''ΟΥΣ), as three initials in Latin letters.  See [[w:Christogram|Christogram]] at Wikipedia.

===Proper noun===
'''Jesus H. Christ'''
# ''(Used chiefly as a stronger form, in oaths.)'' [[Jesus Christ]].

===Quotations===
* '''2004,''' James McManus, ''Positively Fifth Street'' [http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0312422520/ref=sib_vae_pg_306/102-5475053-6116923?%5Fencoding=UTF8&keywords=jesus%20h%20christ&p=S08T&twc=1&checkSum=68EDgXNssu6uwjpsOhdtj2ePQFB%2FApJwYJKoQRANvAk%3D#reader-page]
*: “I’m gonna get outta their way,” he mutters, then snorts without mirth. “All ''I'' had were jacks.”  We believe him, of course. What are jacks, after all, once Beelzebub and '''Jesus H. Christ''' get involved?
* '''2003,''' Marie D Blair, ''Tiara of Thorns'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0595271782&id=a9xW_GE2Sd0C&pg=PA40&lpg=PA40&sig=Lieh_lBdA6U460vo7pbkSZJBj4k]
*: “Isn’t that what '''Jesus H. Christ''' wore before they nailed him to the cross?” questioned Bobby.  “I read about that in vacation Bible school when I was a kid.”
* '''2004,''' Marsha Moyer, ''The Last of the Honky-tonk Angels'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0060081643&id=QqyJBs5EV-4C&pg=PA170&lpg=PA170&sig=-o-MIrjiHwZX6YeapDnX7MnXoto]
*: “'''Jesus H. Christ''' on the cross,” he said. He caught my reflected gaze and held it. “How long have you known about this?”
* '''2004,''' Andrew Klavan, ''Dynamite Road'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN076534694X&id=sgIgsX6RJPoC&pg=PA226&lpg=PA226&sig=8qKNCCplRHFwQNZxmtRV59MCjT8]
*: “'''Jesus H. Christ''',” he said aloud. “'''Jesus H. Christ'''.”
* '''2004,''' Ted Bell, ''Hawke'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&vid=ISBN0743466705&id=t41yQ2N4NKIC&pg=PA363&lpg=PA363&sig=vw-AqajBKQo9VmOOeJs9QoOm4S4]
*: He ran down the narrow stairway that led to the kitchen, Rita still hollering upstairs. '''Jesus H. Christ''', this spy shit was tough on a marriage.