==English==

===Etymology===
'''The spout of fluid'''

From [[French]] jet, [[Old French]] get, giet, [[Latin]] [[iactus]] (a throwing, a [[throw]]) from [[iacere]] (to throw). See [[Abject]], [[Ejaculate]], [[Gist]], [[Jess]], [[Jut]]. 

'''The stone or coal'''

From [[Old French]] / [[French]]  jet, jayet, [[Latin]] [[gagates]], after [[Greek]] [[Gagas]], a town and river in [[Lycia]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[stream]], [[spout]], [[spurt]] or [[flow]] of [[liquid]] or [[gas]] from a [[pressurize]]d [[container]], an [[engine]], etc.
# A class of [[airplane]] whose engines use [[turbine]]s rather than [[propellor]]s. 
# A hard, [[black]] form of [[coal]], sometimes used in [[jewellery]].
# (colour) The [[colour]] of jet (3), deep black.
#:<table><tr><td>jet colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#3E3E3E" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
# An engine that propels a vehicle using a stream of fluid as propulsion. 
# A part of a [[carburetor]] that controls the amount of fuel mixed with the air.

====Translations====
'''spray'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[струя]] ''f'' 
*Dutch: [[straal]] ''f''
*Finnish: [[suihku]]
{{mid}}
*French: jet ''m''
*Japanese: [[噴射]] (ふんしゃ, funsha),[[射出]] (しゃしゅつ, shashutsu)
*Spanish: [[chorro]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''airplane'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[реактивен]] [[самолет]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[straalvliegtuig]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[suihkukone]] 
{{mid}}
*French: jet ''m''
*Japanese: [[ジェット機]] (じぇっとき, jettoki)
*Spanish: [[jet]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''coal'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[черен]] [[кехлибар]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[瑿]]
*Finnish: [[gagaatti]]
{{mid}}
*French: jais
*Japanese: [[黒玉]] (くろたま, kurotama), [[貝褐炭]] (ばいかつたん, baikatsutan)
*Spanish: [[azabache]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

'''colour'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[koolzwart]] ''n'' 
*French: jais
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[漆黒]] (しっこく, shikkoku)
*Spanish: [[azabache]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|jet||t}}

# To spray out of a container.
# To travel on a jet (2).

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-notcomp}}

# Propelled by turbine engines, e.g. ''jet airplane''.
# (colour) Of a very dark black in colour.

====Translations====
'''propelled'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[реактивен]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[a chorro]], [[a propulsión]], [[a reacción]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''colour'''
{{top}}
*Spanish: [[azabache]] ''m'' & ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
{{top3}}
*[[bubble-jet printer]]
*[[executive jet]]
*[[fanjet]]
*[[gas jet]]
*[[ink-jet printer]]
*[[jato]]
*[[jet-black]]
*[[jet boat]]
*[[jet engine]]
*[[jet fighter]], [[fighter jet]]
*[[jet lag]]
{{mid3}}
*[[jet off]]
*[[jet set]]
*[[jet stream]], [[jetstream]]
*[[jet turbine]]
*[[jet wash]]
*[[jetbead]]
*[[jetfoil]]
*[[jetliner]]
*[[jetpack]]
*[[jetport]]
*[[jet-propelled]]
{{mid3}}
*[[jetsam]]
*[[jetski, jet ski]]
*[[jettison]]
*[[jumbo jet]]
*[[jump jet]]
*[[pulse jet]]
*[[ram jet]], [[ramjet]]
*[[superjet]]
*[[trijet]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

===References===
*{{R:1913}}

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Blacks]]

----

==Czech==
===Verb===
'''jet''' ([[jedu]], [[jedeš]], [[jede]], [[jedeme]], [[jedete]], [[jedou]])

#to [[ride]]
#to [[go]] (by vehicle)

===Related terms===
* [[jít]] - to go (by foot)

[[Category:Czech irregular verbs]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /dʒɛt/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /dZEt/

===Noun===
'''jet''' ''m''

# [[throw]]
# [[spurt]], [[spout]]

===Related terms===
*[[jeter]]

[[fa:jet]]
[[fr:jet]]
[[io:jet]]
[[it:jet]]
[[hu:jet]]
[[ja:jet]]
[[vi:jet]]
[[zh:jet]]