==English==

===Pronunciation===

*{{AHD|jĭgʹ bôr'ər}}

===Noun===

{{en-noun}}

# A type of [[machine tool]] invented during the World War I era to make possible the quick-yet-very-precise location of hole centers.

===Historical note===
Before the jig borer was developed, hole center location had been accomplished either with layout (either quickly-but-imprecisely or painstakingly-and-precisely) or with [[drill jig|drill jigs]] (themselves made with painstaking-and-precise layout). The jig borer was invented to expedite the making of drill jigs, but helped to eliminate the need for drill jigs entirely by making quick precision directly available for the parts that the jigs would have been created for. The revolutionary principle was that advances in machine tool control that expedited the making of jigs were fundamentally a way to expedite the cutting process itself, for which the jig was just a means to an end. Thus the jig borer's development helped advance [[machine tool]] technology toward later NC and CNC development. The jig borer was a logical extension of manual machine tool technology that began to incorporate some then-novel concepts that would become routine with NC and CNC control, such as:
* coordinate dimensioning (dimensioning of all locations on the part from a single reference point);
* working routinely in "tenths" (ten-thousandths of an inch, 0.0001") as a fast, everyday machine capability (whereas it formerly was the exclusive domain of special, time-consuming, craftsman-dependent manual skills); and
* circumventing jigs altogether.

[[w:Franklin D. Jones|Franklin D. Jones]], in his textbook 'Machine Shop Training Course'' (5th ed),<ref>Jones, Franklin D. ''Machine Shop Training Course'', 5th ed. New York: Industrial Press, 1964, Volume 1, p. 358.</ref> recorded insightfully, "In many cases, a jig borer is a 'jig eliminator.' In other words, such a machine may be used instead of a jig either when the quantity of work is not large enough to warrant making a jig or when there is insufficient time for jig making."

===References===
<references />