{{rfv}}
==English==
===Alternative spellings===
*[[jig jig]]
===Etymology===
Probably onomatopoeic. Compare ''[[jig]]'' and ''[[jiggle]]''.
===Noun===
'''jig-jig''' ''(uncountable)''

# (''predominantly [[pidgin]] English'') [[sexual intercourse]], [[sex]]
====Quotations====
*'''1948,''' [[w:Graham Greene|Graham Greene]], ''[[w:The Heart of the Matter|The Heart of the Matter]]''
*:‘Pretty girl '''jig jig''' by-and-by.’
*'''1969,''' [[w:Graham Greene|Graham Greene]], ''[[w:Travels with My Aunt|Travels with My Aunt]]''
*:‘No '''jig-jig''' here,’ Wordsworth said. ‘If you wan '''jig-jig''' you take her to hotel.’
*'''1996,''' Albert Meltzer, ''I Couldn't Paint Golden Angels''
*:I infuriated them when they came to me by answering only the British officer and acting as if the French one could only understand music-hall pidgin-Franglais (he spoke English perfectly well). “Nice country, non? Mini-skirts, mademoiselles, oo la la. It rains always but plenty '''jig-jig''', wee-wee — you wanna go?”
*'''1998,''' David Marion Wilkinson, ''The Empty Quarter''
*:“Only twenty-eight days more, I go to fucking India. Plenty '''jig-jig'''. No more ''whanimidi!''” Abdullah gestured with his hands to signify masturbation. “'''Jig-jig'''” clearly meant the preferred alternative.
*'''2002,''' Jan Merlin, ''Ainoko''
*:“Ah! you want '''''jig-jig'''''?”
*:“No, goddamnit, I don’t want no fucking '''''jig-jig''''',” Jordan replied impatiently. The boy’s vocabulary in Englsih was limited to ‘You buy, hubba-hubba, booze-o,’ and a few other important phrases leading to a multiplication of numbers equaling ''yen''.

===Verb===
'''jig-jig'''

# to [[have sex]]
====Quotations====
*'''1998,''' David Marion Wilkinson, ''The Empty Quarter''
*:“”Doc '''jig-jig''' pretty much with anyone interested in '''jig-jigging''' him.
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English verbs]]