==English==

===Noun===
'''jigger''' ([[jiggers]])

# A double-ended vessel, generally of stainless steel or other metal, one end of which typically measures 1 1/2 [[ounce]]s, the other typically 1 ounce.
# A measure of 1 1/2 ounces of liquor.
# (''pottery'') A device for producing flatware.
# (''textiles'') A device used in the dyeing of cloth.
# A sandflea, ''Tunga penetrans'', of the order Siphonaptera.
# {{sports}} Archaic: A wooden or metal headed [[golf]] club used to play low flying shots to the [[putting green]] from short distances
#  An alley behind a row of terraced houses in Merseyside, UK

====Quotations====
'''1998-2002:''' A good '''jigger''' will have a well formed lip that will pour a clean stream into the cocktail shaker or glass. &mdash; Robert B. Hess, in [http://www.drinkboy.com/BarTools/Jigger.html Jigger] in DrinkBoy.com

Hand '''jiggers''' consisted of two iron frames with a spindle in each - the driving spindle with its iron belt pulley approximately 20 inches in diameter and the driven spindle with a small wooden pulley. &mdash; [http://www.thepotteries.org/jobs/jiggering.htm Pottery Jobs: Jiggering] on thepotteries.org

====See also====
*[[chigger]]
*[[pony]]
*[[sandflea]]

===Verb===
'''to jigger'''

# To alter or adjust, particularly in ways not originally intended.
#: ''You'll have to '''jigger''' it from the original specifications to get it to work.''
# (''pottery'') To use a jigger.

====Related terms====
*[[jiggerturner]]
*[[jigger around]]
*[[re-jigger]]

====See Also====
*[[fudge]]
*[[tweak]]

[[Category: Metasyntactic words]]