<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->{{#if:{{{nosubst|}}}|<div style="display:none;">}} {{#ifeq:{{NAMESPACE}}|| |{{error:not substituted|AFD}}<div style="display:none;">}}{{#if:{{{nosubst|}}}|</div></div>}}
<div class="boilerplate metadata" id="afd" style="margin: 0 5%; padding: 0 7px 7px 7px; background: #EDF1F1; border: 1px solid #999999; text-align: left; font-size:95%;">
'''This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion policy]][[Template:Afd|.]]'''<br />
Please share your thoughts on the matter at '''[[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/{{{1|Jolly}}}|this article's entry]]''' on the Articles for deletion page.<br />
Feel free to edit the article, but the article must not be blanked, and this notice must not be removed, until the discussion is closed. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the [[Wikipedia:Guide to deletion|guide to deletion]].<br/>
''<small>Steps to [[Template:AfD footer|list an article for deletion]]: {{tls|afd}} <nowiki>{{</nowiki>subst:afd2|pg={{PAGENAME}}|text=}} <nowiki>{{</nowiki>subst:afd3|pg={{PAGENAME}}}} [{{SERVER}}{{localurl:Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Log/{{CURRENTYEAR}}_{{CURRENTMONTHNAME}}_{{CURRENTDAY}}|action=edit}} log] </small></div>
{{{category|[[Category:Articles for deletion]]}}}
<!-- If this message links to an already-closed AfD discussion, please remove it and use Template:Afdx instead -->
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->
{{Template:Wiktionary}}

The word '''jolly''' can be used as either a noun or an adjective.

'''As a noun:'''
*A jolly is an event which is perceived to be more enjoyable than useful, and is perhaps a freebie too.
*A jolly is a party or celebration.

'''As an adjective:'''
*Jolly means 'happy' as in "what a jolly fellow he is".
*Jolly can mean "very", as in a "jolly good show" or "that is jolly nice of you".
*Jolly can be used as a substitution for a defamatory word, making it more acceptable in general conversation as in "what a jolly disgrace!"

==As a name==

*Jolly as a name shares the same meaning as the [[French language|French]] name, Jolie.  It is derived from the Old French word, "joli" that means "merriness."

*The name is quite popular as a unisex first name in Southern [[India]] where the French once visited and settled.  It is also used as a result of the [[United Kingdom|British]] presence.

*Jolly is the surname of a family of southern [[Germany|German]] scientists and politicians including [[Julius Jolly]].

*Jolly a surname in the Punjab(India) is a corruption of the word Jalli. One definition of the word Jalli is forgery, another is the name of a tribe in the North West Frontier Province(now a part of Pakistan). 

{{vocab-stub}}

[[Category:Terminology]]
[[Category:Given names]]
[[Category:Surnames]]