==Filipino==

['''jo'''-logs] /_____/


=== Alternate Spelling ===
'''jologz''', '''jolog'''  ''(Filipino slang)''

=== Etymology ===
From pinoy discotheque with French-sounding name '''[[Jaloux]]''', operating up to the mid-1990s in Quezon City, Philippines. Fun loving creekside slum boys ([[skwaking]]) with an eye to enter the discotheque (prohibitive prices and burly bouncers notwithstanding) seemed incapable of pronouncing 'jaloux' as [ja-'lou], the supposedly correct pronunciation. Undaunted, these poor dirty hip-hop wannabes took to saying "Ja-lux tayo" (trans., "What say we check out Jaloux"). The economically well-off kids, [[asshole]] [[coño]] boys and girls that frequented the club circa 1994, start making fun of the wannabes for hanging their ignorance out quite like the oversized hip-hop belts on their narrow waists. "Mga 'jalux' yang mga yan" <nowiki>("Them's 'jalux' boys, them is")</nowiki>. Over time and repeated use by different kinds of people this 'jalux' evolved into the 'jologs' commonly heard today.

=== Noun ===
jologs

# <nowiki>[original]</nowiki> '''a young person from the squatter area, usually a teenaged male or female''' 
#: ''May mga jologs na nakatira duon sa may creek'' 
#: (Some punks live there in the creekside slums)
# <nowiki>[evolved]</nowiki> '''any person deemed to be acting, exhibiting behaviours, in a manner similar to the commonly observed behaviour of slums teenagers <nowiki>('skwaking')</nowiki>'''
#: ''`Wag ka nga magulo, jologs ka ...'' 
#:(Hey cut it out, you're being jologs ...)

#:See also [http://www.klockworkx.com/copongcopong/?jologs '''Pinoy Slang Dictionary''']

=== Adjective ===
# gaudy, unelegant, without refinement in taste 
#: ''pang-jologs na damit'', ''pang-jologs na abubot''
#: (typical jologs getups, gaudy accessories)

=== Synonyms & related words ===
See
* [[skwaking]]
* [[(is)tambay]]
* [[panggulo]]
* [[gago]]
* [[adik]]
Compare
* [[coño]], [[konyo]]

--[[User:210.23.175.13|210.23.175.13]] 21:19, 13 Apr 2005 (UTC)

=== Verb ===
''vi'' &nbsp;j{um}ologs
''vt'' &nbsp;jolog{in}
''passive'' &nbsp;j{in}ologs, {na}jologs 

# make a complete [[jackass]] of oneself (to do sth. without refinement)
#: ''Gusto kong magwala, jumologs ...''
#: (I wanna go wild)
# to [[punk]]; playing practical jokes on people for cheap thrills
#: ''Jologin natn siya''
#: (Let's [[punk]] him/her)
# backstab (compare def.2 above)
#: ''Jinolog mo ako!''
#: You stabbed me in the back!
----

=== Internet &gt; Blogs ===
<nowiki>[NOTE: Under constr. Currently 2 items listed. May  edit this section more often, there will be abrupt changes. Please bear...]</nowiki>

: [http://kul2bme.blogspot.com/ Jologs blog (1)]
: [http://mryosa.blogspot.com/2004/10/jologs-talk.html Post - <nowiki>just faking: jologs talk</nowiki>]

=== Film/Cinema &gt; Pinoy Movies ===

'''Jologs''' feature film on Manila urban youth life, released in August 2002. <nowiki>[Director: Gilbert Perez | Screenplay: Ned Trespeces]</nowiki>

[http://www.abs-cbn.com/starcinema/movies/jologs/jologs.htm Official Site]


--[[User:Kg|KG]] 12:29, 14 Oct 2004 (UTC)

== Readme / お知らせ: ==
This is an open invitation to all researchers, and Wiktionarians in particular, to check up on other web sources for the origin of the word '''Jologs'''. I have linked a few on this page, and many more can be Googled. Such an effort will help tremendously in comparing material to be compiled for an eventual entry in the Wiki encyclopedia, one that meets certain standards of historical accuracy. All edits and contribs will be properly acknowledged and rewarded. <nowiki>~ KG</nowiki>


--[[User:Kg|KG]] 12:27, 14 Oct 2004 (UTC)