==English==

===Etymology===
Abbreviation of '''[[Junior]]'''

==={{abbreviation}}===
'''Jr.''' ''or'' '''Jr''' (''British'')
# A title used after a [[son]]'s name when his [[father]] has the same name.
#:''John Doe Jr.''

====Usage notes====
{{unreferenced}}
Increasingly used restrictively, with no comma before it: “Louis V. Gerstner ''Jr''., the new chairman of I.B.M., began his campaign yesterday to revive the world's largest computer maker by announcing an $8.9 billion program to cut the company's costs sharply” ''(New York Times)''. Journalistic stylebooks—such as the AP's and the UPI's—prefer this approach, probably because newspapers generally disfavor optional commas.

The comma-less ''Jr''. has logic on its side. But in the mid-1990s, when a group of eminent lawyers and judges with names bearing the abbreviation were polled, they unanimously stated a preference for the comma. That's the traditional approach.

Both forms are correct. The commaless form has logic, and probably the future, on its side. The with-comma form has recent (not ancient) tradition on its side. Posterity will be eager to discover, no doubt, how this dilemma unfolds in the decades ahead. One consideration that [[militates]] in favor of the comma-less form is that, in a sentence, one comma begets another: “John Jones, Jr. was elected” seems to be telling Jones that Jr. was elected. With a comma before Jr., another is needed after: “John Jones, Jr., was elected.”
{{rft|encyclopedic usage note needs trimming}}

====See also====
*[[Sr.]]
*[[II]], [[III]], ... ([[Roman numerals]])

<!--dubious: aren't these just initials of a name like "John Robert"?
===Proper noun===
'''JR'''
# A male [[given name]].
-->

[[pl:Jr]]