==English==
===Etymology===
From [[Old English]] ''[[jugement]]'', [[French]] ''jugement'', [[Late Latin]] ''[[judicamentum]]'', from [[Latin]] ''[[judicare]]''. See [[judge]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{AHD|/jŭj'mənt/}}

===Noun===
'''judgment''' (''plural'': '''judgments''')
#The act of [[judge|judging]]
#:''I oughte deme, of skilful '''jugement''', That in the salte sea my wife is deed.'' &ndash;Geoffrey Chaucer.
#The [[power]] or [[faculty]] of performing such operations; especially, when unqualified, the faculty of judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely; as, a man of judgment; a politician without judgment.
#:''He shall judge thy people with righteousness and thy poor with '''judgment'''''. &ndash;''Psalms 72:2'' ([[Bible]]).
#:''Hermia. I would my father look'd but with my eyes. Theseus. Rather your eyes must with his '''judgment''' look.'' &ndash;Shakespeare, ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'', I-i
#The [[conclusion]] or result of judging; an [[opinion]]; a [[decision]].
#:''She in my '''judgment''' was as fair as you.'' - Shakespeare, ''Two Gentlemen of Verona'', IV-iv
#The act of determining, as in courts of law, what is conformable to law and justice; also, the [[determination]], [[decision]], or [[sentence]] of a court, or of a judge
#:''In '''judgments''' between rich and poor, consider not what the poor man needs, but what is his own.'' &ndash;[[Jer. Taylor]].
#:''Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the '''judgment'''''. &ndash;Shakespeare, ''Merchant of Venice'', IV-i
#(''[[Theology]]'') The final [[award]]; the last sentence. 

===Usage note===
'''Judgment''', [[abridgment]], [[acknowledgment]], and [[lodgment]] are in England sometimes written, judgement, abridgement, acknowledgement, and lodgement. &hand; Judgment is used adjectively in many self-explaining combinations; as, judgment hour; judgment throne. 

===Derived terms===
*[[arrest of judgment]]
*[[judgment day]]
*[[judgment debt]]
*[[judgment hall]]
*[[judgment of God]]
*[[judgment seat]]
*[[judgment summons]]

<!-- move these to separate pages
#(''[[Theology]]'') Judgment day, the last day, or period when final judgment will be pronounced on the subjects of God's moral government. -- 
#(''[[Law]]'') Judgment debt, a debt secured to the creditor by a judge's order. 
#'''Judgment''' hall, a hall where courts are held.
#'''Judgment''' seat, the seat or bench on which judges sit in court; hence, a court; a tribunal. 
#:*We shall all stand before the '''judgment''' seat of Christ. ''Romans xiv. 10'' ([[Bible]]).
#(''[[Law]]'') '''Judgment''' summons, a proceeding by a '''judgment''' creditor against a '''judgment''' debtor upon an unsatisfied '''judgment'''. 
#(''[[Law]]'')Arrest of '''judgment'''. See under [[Arrest]].
#'''Judgment''' of God, a term formerly applied to extraordinary trials of secret crimes, as by arms and single combat, by ordeal, etc.; it being imagined that God would work miracles to vindicate innocence. See under [[Ordeal]].
-->

{{webster}}