Good day,
This letter may come to you as a surprise due to the fact that we have not
yet met. The message could be strange but real if you pay some attention to
it. I could have notified you about it at least for the sake of your
integrity. Please accept my sincere apologies. In bringing this message of
goodwill to you, I have to say that I have no intentions of causing you any
pains.
I am Mrs. Maria . Savimbi, wife of the late rebel leader Jonas Savimbi of
Angola who was killed on the 22nd of February 2002 . I managed to get your
contact details through the internet myself Time is of the importance and I
was desperately looking for a person to assist
me in this confidential business.
My late husband, Jonas Savimbi was able to deposit a large sum of money in
different security firms in Europe. My husband  is dead  and the movement of
his family members (including me) is restricted. We are forbidden to either
travel broad or out of our localities. 
Presently our movement are monitored. Right now there is a rush for all my husband's
wealth but home and Abroad by the present  Government who are claiming that
most of the wealth was got by Arms smuggling and therefore illegal and by my husband 's extended family and relations. His wealth has been estimated to be $500 million to over $1 billion and being close to my husband  I happen to be in possession of documents and
information of some of the wealth.Approx. $250 million and only my trusted
son  knows that I have this information.
Presently,US$14,560,000.00 (FOURTEEN MILLION, FIVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS) and  the  7,000kg of AU gold dust, 8500kg of pure Diamond
my husband  moved to Europe before his death is deposited with some security
firm . Before you can get access to it I have to give you the some hits.
I am therefore soliciting your help to travel to europe  to recieve this
money and keep it in a safe place or  into an account before my government
get wind of this fund .You know my husband  was a rebel leader in Angola
before his death.My reason for doing this is because it will be difficult
for the Angolan government to trace my husband 's  money to an individual's
account, especially when such an individual has no relationship,I decided to
keep that money for my family use.
I am currently and temporarily living in Angola with my family. My son who
has a temporary refugee status in The Netherlands, will work with you on my
behalf from there. Due to the political climate in Angola at the moment
being so sensitive and unstable for my family and me.
With this password and documents I will send to you via my son, when you are
ready I will give you the information needed on how you can get access to
this fund. You will then proceed to the Security Co in Europe  where the
US$14,560,000.00 (FOURTEEN MILLION, FIVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS)
will be given to you or transferred to an account you will provide.
Please acknowledge the receipt of this e-mail by reply e-mail.
Thanks for your anticipated assistance.
Yours sincerely,
Maria Savimbi.