==English==

{{rank|fast|middle|effort|881|race|ladies|rise|looks}}

===Pronunciation===
*/rās/, /reɪs/, /<tt>reIs</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-race.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:[[Rhymes:English:-eɪs|Rhymes: -eɪs]]

=== Etymology 1 ===
Middle English from Old Norse ''[[rás]]'', akin to Old English ''[[ræs]]''

==== Noun ====
'''race''' (''[[countable]] and uncountable''; ''plural'' '''[[races]]''')

# A large group of people set apart from others on the basis of a common [[heritage]].
#* ''The [[Anglo-Saxon]] '''race'''''
# A large group of people set apart from others on the basis of common, [[genetically-linked]], physical characteristics (e.g., skin color, hair type).
#* '''''Race''' was a significant issue during [[apartheid]] in [[South Africa]].''
# ''(Controversial)'': One of the categories from the many subcategorizations of the human species. ''See Wikipedia's article on [[w:Race_(historical_definitions)|historical definitions of race]].''
#* ''The [[Native American]]s colonized the [[New World]] in several waves from Asia, and thus they are part of the same [[Mongoloid]] '''race'''.''
# ''(Biology)'': A population geographically separated from others of its species that develops significantly different characteristics; informal for [[subspecies]].
# A [[breed]] or [[strain]] of [[domesticate]]d animal.
# A category or species of something that has emerged or evolved from an older one (with an implied parallel to animal [[breeding]] or [[evolutionary science]]).
#* ''The advent of the Internet has brought about a new race of [[entrepreneur]].''
#* ''Recent developments in [[artificial intelligence]] has brought about a new race of robots that can perform household chores without supervision.''

==== Synonyms ====
* [[subspecies]]
* [[breed]]
* [[variety]]

==== Related terms ====
* [[racism]]
* [[racial]]
* [[racy]]

=== Etymology 2 ===
Italian ''[[razza]]''

==== Noun ====
'''race''' (''[[countable]] and uncountable''; ''plural'' '''[[races]]''')

# A contest between people, animals, vehicles, etc. where the goal is to be the first to reach some objective. Several horses run in a ''horse race'', and the first one to reach the finishing post wins; in an ''arms race'' several countries each try to acquire more powerful weapons than any other.
# A progressive movement toward a goal.
# A fast moving current of water.
# A rhizome (esp. of ginger)
# The [[bushing]]s of a rolling element [[bearing]] which contacts the rolling elements.

====Translations====
'''Needs to be fixed:'''
*[[Breton]]: [[redadeg]] ''f'' (1), [[red#Breton|red]] ''m'' (3), [[gouenn]] ''f'' (5)
*Chinese: [[比赛]], [[竞赛]], [[竞争]]; [[人类]], [[种族]], [[种]], [[类]]
*Dutch: [[wedstrijd]] ''f'' (1), race ''f'' (1), [[wedloop]] ''m'' (1), [[ras]] ''n'' (5)
*Finnish: [[kilpailu]] (1, 2), [[rotu]] (5)
*French: [[course#French|course]] ''f'' (1), race ''f'' (5)
*German: [[Rennen]] ''n'' (1, 2), [[Rasse]] ''f'' (4, 5)
*{{hu1|verseny}}
* [[Ido]] : [[raso]]
*Indonesian: [[lomba]] / [[pacu]]an (1), [[laju]] (2,3), [[ras]] (4)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[cursa]] (1, 2); [[currente]], [[torrente#Interlingua|torrente]] (3); [[racia]] (4, 5)
*Irish: [[clann]] ''f'' (4)
*Italian: [[corsa#Italian|corsa]] ''f'' (1)
*Japanese: [[競争]] (きょうそう, kyōsō) (1), [[進行]] (しんこう, shinkō) (2), [[人種]] (じんしゅ, jinshu) (4)
*Polish: [[wyścig]] ''m'' (1, 2), [[rasa]] (3, 4)
*Portuguese: [[corrida#Portuguese|corrida]] ''f'' (1,2); [[correnteza]] ''f'', [[torrente#Portuguese|torrente]] ''f'' (3); [[raça]] ''f'' (4, 5)
*Romanian: [[cursă]], [[concurs]] (1)
*Spanish: [[concurso]] (1), [[carrera]] (2), [[corriente]] (3), [[raza]] (4, 5), [[raíz]] (7) 
*Russian: [[гонка]] ''f'', [[гонки]] ''pl''(1, 2), [[раса]] ''f'' (4, 5)

==== Intransitive verb ====
{{en-verb|rac|ing}}

# To take part in a race (in the sense of a contest).
# To move or drive at high speed.
#:''As soon as it was time to go home, he raced for the door.''
#:''Her heart was racing as she peered into the dimly lit room.''
# Of a motor, to run rapidly when not engaged to a transmission.

=====Translations=====
*[[Breton]]: [[kemer perzh]] en ur [[redadeg]] (1)
*Dutch: [[racen]], [[rennen]], [[wedlopen]]
*Finnish: [[kilpailla]] (1)
*Indonesian: [[lomba]] (1), [[pacu|berpacu]] (1, 2), [[laju|melaju]] (2)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[currer]] (1, 2)
*Italian: [[correre]] (2)
*Japanese: [[競争]]する (きょうそうする, kyōsō-suru), [[競う]] ([[きそう]], kisou) (1)
*Portuguese: [[correr]] (1, 2)

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==French==
===Pronunciation===
*/ʀas/, /<tt>Ras</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:French:-as|Rhymes: -as]]

===Noun===
'''race''' ''f''

# race (''classification'')
# [[kind]]

===Synonyms===
*[[espèce]]

===Related terms===

*[[racial]]
*[[racisme]]
*[[raciste]]
*[[racisty]]

[[ang:race]]
[[fa:race]]
[[fr:race]]
[[io:race]]
[[it:race]]
[[hu:race]]
[[nl:race]]
[[ru:race]]
[[sr:race]]
[[fi:race]]
[[ta:race]]
[[vi:race]]
[[zh:race]]