==English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[radicalis]]''.

===Adjective===
'''radical'''
#Of or pertaining to the [[root]] or root cause of the matter.
#[[Thorough going]] or fundamental.
#:The spread of the cancer required radical surgery, and the entire organ was removed.
#Favouring fundamental change, or change at the root cause of the matter.
#:''His beliefs are radical.''
#Slang: Extremely, incredible: That was a radical jump!
====Translations====
*Finnish: [[radikaali]], [[jyrkkä]]
* {{io}} : [[radikala]]

===Noun===
'''radical'''
{{wikipedia}}
#Person with radical opinions.
#(Hist. - 19th-century England) A member of the most progressive wing of the Liberal Party; someone favouring social reform (but generally stopping short of socialism).
#(Hist. - Early 20th-century France) A member of an influential, centrist political party favouring moderate social reform, a republican constitution, and secular politics.
#{{mathematics}} The root of a quantity <i>n</i> as notated by &radic;n.
#{{linguistics}} In Chinese (and other logogram based languages), that portion of a character that provides an indication of its meaning.  This may be the whole character, or just a small part of it.  See also [[phonetic]].
#{{chemistry}} A group of [[atom]]s, joined by [[covalent bond]]s, that take part in [[reaction]]s as a single [[unit]].

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[radikaali]]
*Danish: radikal

====Related Terms====
*[[free radical]]
*[[radically]]

==French==
===Adjective and noun===
# '''radical'''

[[fr:radical]]