==English==
===Etymology===
From the [[w:Middle English language|Middle English]] ''[[Ragamuffyn]].''

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈrægəˌmʌfən/}}
*{{audio|en-us-ragamuffin.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
'''ragamuffin'''
# A [[dirty]], [[shabby|shabbily]]-[[clothed]] [[child]]; an [[urchin]].
# ''(According to [[wikipedia:Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable|Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable]]):'' A ''muffin'' is a poor thing of a creature, a 'regular muff'; so that a ''ragamuffin'' is a sorry creature in rags.

====Usage note====
:Currently this word is slang, used either for [[anachronism|anachronistic]] effect or as dialogue in [[wikipedia:historical fiction|historical fiction]].

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1500s=1597|
1800s=1868 1882|
1900s=1906 1916}}
*'''1597''' — [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:The First Part of King Henry the Fourth|1 Hen IV]] v 3''
*:I have led my '''ragamuffins''' where they are peppered: there's not three of my hundred and fifty left alive; and they are for the town's end, to beg during life.
*'''1868''' — [[w:Louisa May Alcott|Louisa May Alcott]], ''[[s:Little Women|Little Women]]'', Ch. 47
*:“But may I inquire how you intend to support the establishment? If all the pupils are little '''ragamuffins''', I’m afraid your crop won’t be profitable in a worldly sense, Mr. Bhaer.”
*'''1882''' — [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''[[s:The Prince and the Pauper|The Prince and the Pauper]]'', Ch. 12
*:'Yes, he is mine—I took him, a homeless little '''ragamuffin''', but I saw what was in him, and I said his name would be heard some day—behold him, observe him—was I right?'
*'''1906''' — [[w:Upton Sinclair|Upton Sinclair]], ''[[s:The Jungle|The Jungle]]'', Ch. 18
*:After walking a ways, Jurgis met a little '''ragamuffin''' whom he hailed: "Hey, sonny!"
*'''1916''' — [[w:John Buchan, 1st Baron Tweedsmuir|John Buchan]], ''[[s:Greenmantle|Greenmantle]]'', Ch. 15
*:He had found out the house of Frau von Einem without much trouble, and had performed with his '''ragamuffins''' in the servants' quarters.

[[fr:ragamuffin]]