==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-rake.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪk|-eɪk]]
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[raca]]''
====Noun====
'''rake''' (pl. ''rakes'')

#A garden [[tool]] with a row of pointed teeth fixed to a long handle, used for collecting grass or [[debris]], or for [[loosen]]ing soil.
#([[Ireland]] / [[idiomatic]]) a lot, plenty.
#:Jim has had a [[rake]] of trouble with his new car.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[شوكة الحشائش]] 
*Basque: [[are]]
*Catalan: [[rampí]] ''m'', [[rasclet]] ''m''
*Croatian: [[grablje]] ''f, pl''
*Dutch: [[riek]] {{m}}, [[gritsel]] {{m}}, [[hark#Dutch|hark]] {{m}}
*Estonian: [[reha]]
*Finnish: [[harava]]
*French: [[râteau]] {{m}}
*German: [[Rechen]] ''m'', [[Harke]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[gereblye]]
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[갈퀴]] (galkwi) 
*Slovak: [[hrable]]
*Slovene: [[grablje]] ''f, pl''
*Spanish: [[rastrillo]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
From the verb ''rake''
====Noun====
'''rake'''

#A man [[habituate]]d to [[immoral]] [[conduct]].
#:''We now have rakes in the habit of Roman senators, and grave politicians in the dress of Rakes. &mdash; the Spectator''

====Synonyms====
* [[roué]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[رجل بلا أخلاق]]
*French: [[roué#French|roué]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
Via Middle English from Old Norse ''[[raka]]''
====Transitive verb====
'''rake''' (raking, raked, raked)

#To use a rake on (leaves, debris, soil, a lawn, etc) in order to loosen, gather together, or remove debris from.
#:''We raked all the leaves into a pile''
#To search thoroughly.
#:''Detectives appeared, roped the curious people out of the grounds, and raked the place for clews.  -- Captain John Blaine''
#To spray with gunfire.
#:''the enemy machine guns raked the roadway''

====Synonyms====
*(''search thoroughly''): [[comb]], go over ''or'' through with a [[fine-tooth comb]], [[scour]]

====Translations====
'''use a rake on'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: 1.[[يجمع الحشائش]].3, [[يسرح الشعر\الحشائش]].2, [[قذائف مكثفة]]
*Dutch: [[rakelen]], [[harken]], [[gritselen]]
*Estonian: [[rehitsema]]
*Finnish: [[haravoida]]
*French: [[râtisser]]
{{mid}}
*Slovene: [[grabiti]]
*Spanish: [[rasurar]]
{{bottom}}

'''search thoroughly'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[haravoida]]
*French: [[fouiller]], [[passer au peigne fin]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''spray with gunfire'''
{{top}}
*French: [[arroser]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology===
Probably related to German ''[[ragen]]''
====Verb====
'''rake'''

# [[jut]] out (ship's bow or stern above keel)

----

==Dutch==
=== Adjective ===
'''rake''' (''base form'' [[raak]])

# hitting its target

===See also===
*[[rake klappen]]

[[fr:rake]]
[[io:rake]]
[[it:rake]]
[[pt:rake]]
[[fi:rake]]
[[vi:rake]]
[[zh:rake]]