==English==

===Noun===
'''rambles'''
# Walks outdoors over hills n stuff

===Verb form===
'''rambles'''
# ''[[third-person]] [[singular]] simple present of [[ramble]]''
#:''I love the way that Gaz rambles. He just keeps on rambling and rambling and rambling, y'know. When he rambles it's like you get stuck in some kinda, y'know, loop, or whatever, with speaking. Maybe a speech loop or sumfink, I dunno. Its not always all that great when he rambles, coz u dunno wot he's saying, an' mebbe the story he wants to, y'know, tell or wotever, gets kinda, ah, wots the word, obfusthingymajig, y'know, ah yeah, obfuscated I fink. Anyway, the fact that he rambles is wot first made me fancy him. Coz loadsa ppl just sit there on their ass all bloomin' day, sayin' nuffink and bein' all borin', y'know. But since he rambles, its like he's saying "I'm talking, y'know", y'know. You know what i mean, cos I don't like silence that much. Better to speak bullcrap than to not speak at all, thats what I say. So, all in all, when he rambles, it is good. But not good when someone else rambles cos they've heard that he rambles and they start rambling coz they fink I like ppl who rambles. It's like my mate Stevie, rite, coz he thought I fancied Gaz coz he rambles, which is kinda true, cos he is soooooo cute when he rambles. But when Stevie rambles, it's like fake, y'know. When he rambles it's nuffink like when Gaz rambles. Ah, I love that Gaz, he's a lulvly boy. Sometimes he waffles too, or he gesticulates. But I dunno if that's as cute. u-no-wot-i-mean? lol xxxxx lol lmao so freakin' cool he is. cul8r doods. Bianca xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx''