{{see|rangé}}

==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-range.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
'''range''' (''plural:'' '''[[ranges]]''')
# Line or series of mountains.
# Large fuel-burning stove.
# Selection, array. Eg: ''A range of cars''.
# Area used for shooting, artillary, etc.
# (''mathematics'') The [[set]] of [[values]] ([[points]]) which a function can obtain.
# The distance to a [[target]], or to the subject of discussion.
#:We could see the ship at a ''range'' of five miles.
# ''(sports)'' {{baseball}} The defensive area that a player can cover.
#: ''Jones has good '''range''' for a big man.''

==== Antonyms ====
*[[domain]] (5)

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Spanish: [[gama]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[bergskedja]] ''c'' (1), [[urval]] ''n'' (3), [[skjutbana]] ''c'' (4), [[värdemängd]] ''c'' (5)
*Telugu: [[పంక్తి]] (paMkti), [[వరుస]] (varusa), [[శ్రేణి]] (SreaNi)
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|rang|e}}
# (''followed by'' '''over''') To travel over (an area, etc) with a particular purpose.
# (''mathematics, computing''; ''followed by'' '''over''') Of a variable, to be able to take any of the values in a specified range.
#:''The variable'' x ''ranges over all [[real]] values from 0 to 10.''

===Related terms===
*[[firing range]]
*[[shooting gallery]]
*[[oven]]

[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[et:range]]
[[fa:range]]
[[fr:range]]
[[io:range]]
[[it:range]]
[[hu:range]]
[[no:range]]
[[fi:range]]
[[sv:range]]
[[vi:range]]
[[zh:range]]