{{see|râpé}}
==English==

===Etymology 1===
{{L.}} ''[[rapere]]'' to abduct or sieze by force.

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪp|-eɪp]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of forcing [[sexual intercourse]] or other sexual activity upon another [[person]], without their [[consent]].

===Verb===
{{en-verb|rap|ing}}

# To force [[sexual intercourse]] or other sexual activity upon another [[person]], without their [[consent]].
# To [[abuse]] an object in an extreme manner.
#: ''The loggers '''raped''' the [[virgin forest]]''
# (''slang'') To [[dominate]] in a [[contest]].
#: ''My experienced opponent will '''rape''' me at chess.

===Etymology 2===
{{L.}} ''rapum -rapa'': a turnip.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|rape}}

#[[rapeseed|Rapeseed.]] ''Brassica napus''

====Translations====
*See under rapeseed

===Etymology 3===
{{F.}} ''rape'': a grape stalk.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#The stalks and [[husk]]s of grapes.
#A filter containing the stalks and husks of grapes used for clarifying wine.
#{{obsolete}} Fruit plucked in a bunch -  as in a '''rape''' of grapes.

===Translations===
'''Noun: the act of rape:'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[verkragting]]
*Chinese: [[强奸]] (qiǎng jiān)
*Dutch: [[verkrachting]]
*Finnish: [[raiskaus]]
*French: [[viol]] {{m}}
*German: [[Vergewaltigung]] {{f}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[stupro]], [[violation]]
*Italian: [[stupro]] {{m}}, [[violento]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[強姦]]
{{mid}}
*Malay: [[rogol]]
*[[Malayalam]]: [[ബലാത്സംഗം]]
*Norwegian: [[voldtekt]]
*Old English: [[unrihthæmed|unrihthǣmed]]
*Polish: [[gwałt]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[estupro]] {{m}}
*Scots Gaelic: [[èignich]], èigneachadh {{m}}
*Swedish: [[våldtäkt]] {{c}} (1)
*Telugu: [[మానభంగం]] (maanabhaMgaM)
{{bottom}}

'''Verb: to rape'''
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[verkrag]]
*Chinese: [[强奸]] (qiangjian)
*Dutch: [[verkrachten]]
*Finnish: [[raiskata]]
*French: [[violer]] 
*German: [[vergewaltigen]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[stuprar]], [[violar]]
*Italian: [[stuprare]], [[violentare]], [[violare]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[強姦]]する (ごうかんする), [[暴行]]する　（ぼうこうする), [[犯す]] ([[おかす]])
*Polish: [[gwałcić]], [[zgwałcić]]
*Portuguese: [[estuprar]], [[violentar]]
*Swedish: [[våldta]] (1)
*Telugu: [[మానభంగం చేయు]] (maanabhaMgaM chaeyu) 
{{bottom}}

'''Noun: Rapeseed'''
{{top}}

'''Noun: grape husks'''
{{top}}

'''Noun: a wine filter'''
{{top}}

'''Noun: a bunch of fruit.'''
{{top}}

===Related terms===
*[[rapist]]
*[[rapt]]
*[[statutory rape]]

[[Category:English verbs]]
[[Category:English slang]]
[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]

[[fr:rape]]
[[io:rape]]
[[it:rape]]
[[pl:rape]]
[[fi:rape]]
[[vi:rape]]