Ravens are a wild species of black bird, Ravens are often thought to bring large noses and uglyness to those have dead ones resting a top their head.  Unfortunatly this was the case for a one "Maya Hellawi" (Pronounced (Where the) Hell are we).  The raven is thought to have died around 6 years, 24 days and 56minutes ago while in flight over Transylvania, Maya's home country of ugly.  The raven fell from the sky and landed atop Maya's head while she was trying to be emo (see: Emo), but Phailing badly.  As it landed, it's large talons descended into her head, retarding her mentally, and physically very much so, the bird has gained new life, feeding off Maya (resulting in pale skin and an elongated nose)  Maya tries to pass the Raven off as her hair, but the scrawtches the bird makes are a giveaway.  The bird is very much alive, it enjoys walks on the beach and resting on Maya's ugly, ugly head. Maya (where the hell are we) Went to france over the holliday so she could attempt to get a tan (supposadly) but then she got stranded (supposadly)for 2 weeks she went to a secret facility and attempted a nose job, this went hidiously wrong and left her nose even more derranged and twisted. it should be a crime to have such a bad nose, and it is, now it is a criminal offence to bring anything Maya-related to France for punishment of death.

Maya has recently become famous accross the internet after having starred in a Ytmnd (Link below).  She is now a celebrity and a hope for many Raven related tragedy victims, her charity "Ravens are emo, so am i" has raised £0.56 in the past 15 years, they hope to gain enough money to have the Raven removed.

But as for now, Maya will be left with this raven atop her head forever, causing mass hysteria, blindings and odors accross the world.  The company "Kill it, it's ugly" is currently awaiting permission to get the go-ahead to,kill Maya, ultimatly doing the world a favour.

If Maya were to find out about this Wikipedia entry, i would surely be castrated, but it's a risk that must be taken.

Maya's Homepage http://mayafail.ytmnd.com