==English==
===Prefix===
'''re-'''

#Added to a [[verb]] to make a verb whose action is being done again.
#:''revisit''
#Added to a verb to make a verb whose action undoes a previous action.
#:''reintegrate''
#Added to a [[noun]] to make a noun meaning something that is being done again.
#:''remake''
#Added to a noun to make a noun meaning the undoing of a previous action.
#:''reintegration''

====Usage notes====
*The hyphen is not normally included in words formed using this prefix, except when the absence of a hyphen would make the meaning unclear.  Hyphens are used in the following cases:
**Sometimes in new coinages and [[nonce]] words.
**:''stir and re-stir the mixture''
**When the word that the prefix is combined with begins with a capital letter.
**:''re-Christianise''
**In British usage, when the word that the prefix is combined with begins with ''e''.
**:''re-entry'' (''North American'': ''reentry'')
**When the word formed is identical in form to another word in which ''re-'' does not have any of the senses listed above.
**:''The chairs have been re-covered'' (covered again)
**:''The chairs have been recovered'' (obtained back)

===Related terms===
*''Almost any verb or noun can take this prefix.  The words listed here are only a small sample.''

*[[reactivate]]
*[[reallocate]]
*[[rearrange]]
*[[reassign]]
*[[reborn]]
*[[re-cover]] <!--requires the hyphen-->
*[[re-creation]] <!--requires the hyphen-->
*[[redo]]
*[[re-form]] <!--requires the hyphen-->
*[[regroup]]
*[[rehouse]]
*[[reintegrate]]
*[[rejig]]
*[[rekindle]]
*[[remake]]
*[[renew]]
*[[reopen]]
*[[reread]]
*[[resell]]
*[[retake]]
*[[revisit]]
*[[rewind]]

==Latin==
===Prefix===
'''re-'''

# [[again]]; prefix added to various words to indicate an action being done again, or like the other usages indicated above under English.
#: [[recreatio]] = creation again



===See also===
*[[again]]
*[[re]]
*[[repeat]]