==English==

{{webster}}

===Verb===
'''to reach'''  ([[reaches]], [[reached]], [[reaching]])
#To [[extend]]; to stretch; to [[thrust]] out; to [[put forth]], as a limb, a member, something held, or the like.
#Hence, to [[deliver]] by stretching out a [[member]], especially the hand; to give with the hand; to pass to another; to hand over; as, to reach one a book.
#To attain or obtain by [[stretch]]ing forth the hand; too extend some part of the body, or something held by one, so as to touch, [[strike]], [[grasp]], or the like; as, to reach an object with the hand, or with a spear.
#To strike, hit, or tough with a [[missile]]; as, to reach an [[object]] with an arrow, a bullet, or a shell.
#Hence, to extend an [[action]], effort, or [[influence]] to; to [[penetrate]] to; to pierce, or cut, as far as.
#To extend to; to stretch out as far as; to touch by [[virtue]] of [[extent]]; as, his hand reaches the river.
#To [[arrive]] at by effort of any kind; to attain to; to gain; to be advanced to.
#To [[understand]]; to comprehend.
#To stretch out the [[hand]].
#To [[strain]] after something; to make efforts.
#To extend in [[dimension]], time, amount, action, influence, etc., so as to touch, attain to, or be equal to, something.

===Noun===
'''reach'''  (''plural:'' [[reaches]])
#The act of stretching or extending; [[extension]]; power of reaching or touching with the person, or a limb, or something held or thrown; as, the fruit is beyond my reach; to be within reach of cannon shot.
#The power of stretching out or extending action, influence, or the like; power of [[attainment]] or [[management]]; extent of force or capacity.
#Extent; stretch; expanse; hence, [[application]]; influence; result; scope.
#An extended [[portion]] of land or water; a stretch; a straight portion of a stream or river, as from one turn to another; a level stretch, as between locks in a [[canal]]; an arm of the sea extending up into the land.

===Translation===

*{{de}}:[[erreichen]]
*{{es}}:[[alcanzar]]
*{{fr}}:[[atteindre]]
*{{io}}:[[atingar]]
*{{it}}:[[giungere]]