==English==

{{rank|high|above|received|299|read|together|already|son}}

===Pronunciation===
Noun and present tense
:*AHD: rēd
:*IPA: /riːd/
:*SAMPA: /<tt>ri:d</tt>/
:*{{audio|en-us-read.ogg|Audio (US)}}
:*'''Homophones:''' [[reed]]
:*'''Rhymes:''' [[Rhymes:English:-iːd|-iːd]]
Past tense and past participle
:*AHD: rĕd
:*IPA: /rɛd/
:*SAMPA: /<tt>rEd</tt>/
:*{{audio|en-us-read-past.ogg|Audio (US)}}
:*'''Homophones:''' [[red]], [[redd]]
:*'''Rhymes:''' [[Rhymes:English:-ɛd|-ɛd]]

===Etymology===
English is the one of the few western European languages that does not derive its verb for “to read” from Latin legere. Compare, for example, leggere in Italian, lire in French, and lesen in German. (Equally surprising is the fact that English is the only western European language not to derive its verb for “to write” from Latin ''[[scribere]]''.) Read comes from the Old English verb rdan, “to advise, interpret (something difficult), interpret (something written), read.” Rdan is related to the German verb raten, “to advise” (as in Rathaus, “townhall”). The Old English noun rd, “counsel,” survives in the rare noun rede, “counsel, advice” and in the name of the unfortunate King Ethelred the Unready, whose epithet is often misunderstood. Unready here does not have its current sense “unprepared” it is a late 16th-century spelling of an earlier unredy, “ill advised, rash, foolish,” from rede.
<!-- http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=read -->

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A reading or an act of reading, especially an actor's part of a play.

===Verb===
{{en-infl-irreg|read|reads|reading|read|read}}

# {{transitive}} To look at and interpret letters or other information that is [[written]].
# {{transitive}} To speak aloud words or other information that is written.
# {{transitive}} In telecommunications, to be able to hear what is another person is saying over a radio connection.
#:''Do you '''read''' me?''
# {{transitive}} To make a special study of, as by perusing textbooks.
#:''I am reading theology at university.''
# {{transitive}} To [[interpret]] or [[infer]] a [[meaning]], [[significance]], etc.
#:''I can  '''read''' his feelings in his face.''
# {{intransitive}} To have the ability to read text or other information.
#:''He could read by the age of three.''
# {{intransitive}} Of text, etc, to be interpreted or read in a particular way.
#:''Arabic reads backwards.''

====Synonyms====
*(''look at and interpret letters or other information''): [[interpret]], [[make out]], [[make sense of]], [[understand]]
*(''speak aloud words or other information that is written''): read aloud, [[read out]], read out loud, [[speak]]
*(''be able to hear''): [[hear]], [[receive]]
*(''make a study of''): [[learn]], [[study]]

====Translations====

'''look at and interpret letters or other information'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[قرأ]]}} {{Unicode|(qára’a)}}
*Catalan: [[llegir]]
*Chinese: [[看]] (kàn); [[讀]], [[读]] (dú)
*Dutch: [[lezen]]
*Esperanto: [[legi]]
*Finnish:  [[lukea]]
*French: [[lire#French|lire]]
*German: [[lesen]] ([[:de:lesen|^]])
*Hungarian: [[olvasni]], [[elolvasni]]
*Italian: [[leggere]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[読む]] (よむ, yomu)
*Korean: [[읽다]] (ikda)
*Latin: [[legere]]
*Latvian: [[lasīt]]
*Portuguese: [[ler]]
*Russian: [[читать]] (čitát’)
*Slovene: [[brati]]
*Spanish: [[leer#Spanish|leer]]
*Swahili: [[soma]]
*Swedish: [[läsa]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[చదువు]]
{{bottom}}

'''speak aloud words or other information that is written'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[llegir]]
*Dutch: [[lezen]]
*Esperanto: [[legi]]
*Finnish: [[lukea]], [[lukea ääneen]]
{{mid}}
*Latvian: [[lasīt]]
*Slovene: [[brati]]
*Russian: [[читать]] (čitát’)
*Swedish: [[läsa]] [[högt]], [[recitera]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[వల్లెవేయు]]
{{bottom}}

'''be able to hear (in a radio communication)'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[sentir]]
*Dutch: [[ontvangen]], [[horen]]
*Finnish: [[kuulla]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[hören]]
*Swedish: [[förstå]], [[höra]], [[uppfatta]]
{{bottom}}

'''make a study of'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[estudiar]]
*German: [[hören]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[изучать]] (izučát’)
*Swedish: [[studera]]
{{bottom}}

'''have the ability to read text or other information'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[llegir]]
*Dutch: [[lezen]]
*Esperanto: [[legi]]
*French: [[lire#French|lire]]
*German: [[lesen]]
{{mid}}
*Latvian: [[lasīt]]
*Italian: [[leggere]]
*Russian: [[читать]] (čitát’)
*Swedish: [[läsa]]
{{bottom}}

'''of text, etc., to be interpreted or read in a particular way'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: llegir-se
*Dutch: [[gelezen worden]]
*French: [[se lire]]
*German: [[sich]] [[lesen]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[leggersi]]
*Swedish: [[tolka]], [[tyda]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[číst]]
*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[lugema]]
*{{ttbc|Guaraní}}: [[moñe'ẽ]]
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[לקרוא]]
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[olvas]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[lektar]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[baca|membaca]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[leger]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[léigh]]
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[읽다]][[:ko:읽다|^]] (ik-da), [[독서하다]] ([[:ko:독서하다|^]]) (dokseo-hada)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[czytać]], [[przeczytać]], [[odczytać]] 
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[citi]]
*{{ttbc|Tagalog}}: [[basa]]
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[darllen]]
*{{ttbc|Yiddish}}: [[לײענען]]

===Derived terms===
*[[reader]]
*[[reading]]

[[Category:Communication]]
[[Category: English heteronyms]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[de:read]]
[[es:read]]
[[fr:read]]
[[gl:read]]
[[io:read]]
[[it:read]]
[[hu:read]]
[[pl:read]]
[[fi:read]]
[[ta:read]]
[[uk:read]]