==English==
{{webster}}

===Alternative spellings===
*[[realise]] (Commonwealth, but not OED and Canada)

===Verb===
{{en-verb|realiz|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To become [[aware]] of a fact or situation.
#: ''He '''realized''' that he had left his umbrella on the train.''
# {{transitive}} To make [[real]]; to convert from the imaginary or fictitious into the [[actual]]; to bring into concrete existence; to [[accomplish]]; as, to realize a scheme or project.
#* We '''realize''' what Archimedes had only in hypothesis, weighting a single grain against the globe of earth. &mdash; [[w:Joseph Glanvill|Joseph Glanvill]].
# {{transitive}} To cause to seem real; to impress upon the mind as actual; to feel [[vividly]] or [[strongly]]; to make one's own in [[apprehension]] or [[experience]].
#* Many coincidences . . . soon begin to appear in them [Greek inscriptions] which '''realize''' ancient history to us. &mdash; [[w:Benjamin Jowett|Benjamin Jowett]].
#* We can not '''realize''' it in thought, that the object . . . had really no being at any past moment. &mdash; [[w:Sir William Hamilton, 9th Baronet|Sir William Hamilton]].
# {{transitive}} To convert into [[real property]]; to make [[real estate]] of; as, to realize his fortune.
# {{transitive}} To [[acquire]] as an actual possession; to obtain as the result of plans and efforts; to [[gain]]; to [[get]]; as, to realize large profits from a speculation.
#* Knighthood was not beyond the reach of any man who could by diligent thrift '''realize''' a good estate. &mdash; [[w:Macaulay|Macaulay]].
# {{transitive}} To convert into actual money; as, to realize assets.
# {{transitive}} To convert any kind of property into money, especially property representing [[investment]]s, as shares in stock companies, bonds, etc.
#* Wary men took the alarm, and began to '''realize''', a word now first brought into use to express the conversion of ideal property into something real. &mdash; [[w:Washington Irving|Washington Irving]].

====Related terms====
*[[realizable]]

====Translations====
'''become aware of'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ymmärtää]], [[tajuta]]
*French: [[se rendre compte]] (that: ''que'')
*German: [[erkennen]] (that: ''dass'')
*Italian: [[rendersi conto]] (that: ''che'')
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[darse cuenta]] (that: ''de que'')
*Swedish: [[inse]] (that: ''att'')
{{bottom}}

'''make real'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[toteuttaa]]
*French: [[realiser]]
*German: [[realisieren]] (mainly used together with [[project]])
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[realizar]]
*Spanish: [[realizar]]
*Swedish: [[realisera]]
{{bottom}}

'''cause to seem real'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''convert into real property'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''acquire as an actual possession'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''convert into actual money'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[realisoida]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''convert any kind of property into money'''
{{top}}
German: [[realisieren]] (only gain in stock exchange)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[fr:realize]]
[[it:realize]]
[[fi:realize]]
[[vi:realize]]
[[zh:realize]]