==English==
===Etymology===
Coined by [[w:Charles N. Chadbourn|Charles N. Chadbourn]] in 1916 as a collective term for members of the National Association in the United States.
===Noun===
'''realtor'''
# A dealer in [[real estate]]; a real estate [[agent]].
#*'''1919:''' [[w:United States Senate]], ''U.S. Housing Corporation. Hearings Before a Subcommittee'',  - Mr. Shannon [witness]. It was composed of an engineer, if I remember correctly, a town planner, a '''realtor''', and occasionally an architect ...
#*'''1922:''' [[w:Sinclair Lewis|Sinclair Lewis]], ''Babbitt'' - First place, we ought to insist that folks call us ''''realtors'''' and not 'real-estate men.' Sounds more like a reg'lar profession.
#*'''1975:''' [[w:Jerzy N Kosinski|Jerzy N Kosinski]], ''Cockpit'', New York, Grove Press, 1998, p.189 - Intrigued by the prospect of an additional commission, the '''realtor''' hurriedly assured me he foresaw no problem in obtaining the lease.
#*'''1996:''' [[w:Gina Berriault|Gina Berriault]], "The Cove", in ''Women in Their Beds: New and Selected Stories'', Washington, Counterpoint Press, p.194 - Persons who sometimes roam through houses they cannot afford in order to impress '''realtors''', or&mdash;though they have not met him before&mdash; vindictively waste his time, never venture onto verdant ground and across the threshhold of that property.
#*'''1997:''' [[w:Douglas A. Gray|Douglas A. Gray]], ''Canadian home buying made easy'', 2nd edition, p.72 - The terms agent, broker, and '''realtor''' are often used interchangeably. 
#*'''2002:''' [[w:Sarah Young Fisher|Sarah Young Fisher]] and [[w:Susan Shelly|Susan Shelly]], ''Complete Idiot's Guide to Personal Finance in Your 40s and 50s'', Indianapolis, Alpha Books - If you're relocating and looking for a '''realtor''', you could call the chamber of commerce or the local board of real estate agents...
#*'''2003:''' [[w:Gary Andrew Dresden|Gary Andrew Dresden]], ''Confessions of a Gynecologist'', Lincoln, NE, iUniverse, p.111 - The '''realtor''' was like a carnivore, ready to spring. He was originally from New York and he seemed like the kind of guy who could smell a deal.
====Related terms====
* [[estate agent]]
* [[real estate]]

===Usage note===
*REALTOR® and REALTORS® (all in capitals) "are registered collective membership marks that identifies a real estate professional who is a member of the National Association of REALTORS®." [http://www.realtor.org]