==English==

===Etymology===
Ultimately from Latin ''[[retro]]''

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪə(r)|-ɪə(r)]]

====Adjective====
'''rear'''

# Being behind, or in the hindmost part; hindmost; as, the rear rank of a company.

====Adverb====
'''rear'''

# [[early]]; [[soon]] [[Prov. Eng.]]
#:Quotation:  Then why does Cuddy leave his cot so rear! --Gay.

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

#[[Cf.]]: [[Arrear]].
#The back or hindmost part; that which is behind, or last on order; -- opposed to [[front]].
#:Quotation:  Nipped with the lagging rear of winter's frost. --[[w:Milton]]
# {{military}} Specifically, the part of an army or fleet which comes last, or is stationed behind the rest.
#:Quotation:  When the fierce foe hung on our broken rear. --Milton

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[ræran]]''
====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|rear||}}  {{transitive}} - except where noted

# To raise; to lift up; to cause to rise, become erect, etc.; to elevate; as, to rear a monolith.
#:Quotation:  In adoration at his feet I fell Submiss; he reared me. --Milton
#:Quotation:  It reareth our hearts from vain thoughts. --Barrow
#:Quotation:  Mine [shall be] the first hand to rear her banner. --Ld. Lytton
# To erect by building; to set up; to construct; as, to rear  defenses or houses; to rear one government on the ruins of  another.
#:Quotation:  One reared a font of stone. --Tennyson
# {{obsolete}} To lift and take up.
#:Quotation:  And having her from Trompart lightly reared, Upon his set the lovely load. --Spenser
# To bring up to maturity, as young; to educate; to instruct; to foster; as, to rear offspring.
#:Quotation:  He wants a father to protect his youth, And rear him  up to virtue. --Southern
# To breed and raise; as, to rear cattle.
# {{obsolete}} To rouse; to strip up.
#:Quotation:  And seeks the tusky boar to rear. --Dryden
# {{intransitive}} To rise up on the hind legs, as a horse; to become erect.

===Anagrams===
*[[rare]]

===Derived terms===
* Rear admiral, an officer in the navy, next in rank below a vice admiral, and above a commodore. See [[admiral]].
* Rear front ([[Mil.]]), the rear rank of a body of troops when faced about and standing in that position.
* Rear guard (Mil.), the division of an army that marches in the rear of the main body to protect it; -- used also figuratively.
* Rear line (Mil.), the line in the rear of an army.
* Rear rank (Mil.), the rank or line of a body of troops which is in the rear, or last in order.
* Rear sight ([[Firearm]]s), the sight nearest the breech.
* To bring up the rear, to come last or behind.
* ''Rearing bit'', a [[bit]] designed to prevent a horse from lifting his head when rearing. --[[w:Knight]].

===Synonyms===
*[[build]]
*[[elevate]]
*[[erect]]
*[[establish]]
*[[lift]]
*[[raise]]

===Usage note===
See note under [[raise]].

[[fr:rear]]
[[io:rear]]
[[hu:rear]]
[[vi:rear]]
[[zh:rear]]