==English==

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

#{{slang}} Relating to [[reconnaissance]]
#*'''1946:''' United States. Congress. American Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in War Areas, ''Hearings Before the Joint Committee on the Investigation of the Pearl Harbor Attack''
#*:There appears a captured photograph showing cruiser or battleship recovery of an old Jap float '''recce''' plane.
#*'''2006:''' Tony Holmes, ''US Marine Corps And RAAF Hornet Units of Operation Iraqi Freedom''
#*:These record imagery from all three '''recce''' sensors - IR, EO and SAR.
#*'''2006:''' Hew Strachan, ''Big Wars And Small Wars: The British Army and the Lessons of War in the 20th Century''
#*:Reconnaissance ('''recce''') patrols were the most effective solution that the British and Indian Army designed to identify Japanese units and their intentions, as these could move through the jungle without alerting the enemy to their presence.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|recce|s}}

#(''mainly UK'') {{slang}} [[reconnaissance]]
#*'''1953:''' J. (Julian) Maclaren-Ross, ''The Weeping and the Laughter: A Chapter of Autobiography''
#*:Visiting the town on what in the more recent war we called a '''recce''', she arranged a tennis-match with Dolly, guessing that the girl would be a bad loser.
#*'''2006:''' Vincent Tuckwood, ''Karaoke Criminals''
#*:As he climbed into the car, his '''recce''' of the space behind the seats was still a little too obvious despite best efforts at subtlety.
#*'''2006:''' Steve Farndon, ''Escape Inc.''
#*:I'm afraid you two will have to go on a bit of a '''recce''' sometime soon.

[[vi:recce]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|recces|recceing|'''[[recced]]''' or '''[[recce'd]]''' or '''[[recceed]]'''}}

#(''mainly UK'') {{slang}} [[reconnoitre]]
#*'''1961:''' John Sibly, ''You'll Walk to Mandalay: A Novel''
#*:I told the boys to stock up with all they could, and went back to the village to '''recce''' for someone to pay as per orders.
#*'''2006:''' James Scott, ''The Sweaties''
#*:Take him down there with Entry Two and '''recce''' first. If he can't confirm it, we pull out.