==English==

{{webster}}
===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[rekenen]]'', {{AS.}} ''[[gerecenian]]'' to explain; akin to {{D.}} ''[[rekenen]]'' to reckon, {{G.}} ''[[rechnen]]'', {{OHG.}} ''[[rahnjan]]''), and to {{E.}} [[reck]], [[rake]] an implement; the original sense probably being, to bring together, count together.  See [[reck]].

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|reckon||}}
# To count; to enumerate; to number; also, to compute; to calculate.
#:   The priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years that remain. Lev. xxvii. 18.
#:   I reckoned above two hundred and fifty on the outside of the church. Addison.
# To count as in a number, rank, or series; to estimate by rank or quality; to place by estimation; to account; to esteem; to repute.
#:   He was reckoned among the transgressors. Luke xxii. 37.
#:   For him I reckon not in high estate. Milton.
# To charge, attribute, or adjudge to one, as having a certain quality or value.
#:   Faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness. Rom. iv. 9.
#:   Without her eccentricities being reckoned to her for a crime. Hawthorne.
# To conclude, as by an enumeration and balancing of chances; hence, to think; to suppose; -- followed by an objective clause; as, I reckon he won't try that again. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Syn. -- To number; enumerate; compute; calculate; estimate; value; esteem; account; repute.
# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To make an enumeration or computation; to engage in numbering or computing.
# To come to an accounting; to make up accounts; to settle; to examine and strike the balance of debt and credit; to adjust relations of desert or penalty.
#:   Parfay," sayst thou, sometime he reckon shall." Chaucer. To reckon for, to answer for; to pay the account for. If they fail in their bounden duty, they shall reckon for it one day." Bp. Sanderson. -- To reckon on ∨ upon, to count or depend on. -- To reckon with, to settle accounts or claims with; -- used literally or figuratively.
#:      After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. Matt. xxv. 19.
#:      To reckon without one's host, to ignore in a calculation or arrangement the person whose assent is essential; hence, to reckon erroneously. 

===See also===
*[[calculate]]
*[[guess]]

[[it:reckon]]