{{see|récord}}

==English==

===Pronunciation===
*Noun, adjective:
**(''[[RP]]''): rĕ'kôd, /ˈrɛ.kɔːd/, /<tt>"rE.kO:d</tt>/
**{{US}}: rĕ'kərd, /ˈrɛ.kɚd/, /<tt>"rE.k@`d</tt>/
**{{audio|en-us-record-noun.ogg|Audio (US), noun}}
**{{audio|en-us-record-noun.ogg|Audio (US), adjective}}
*Verb:
**(''RP''): rĭ'kôd, /rɪˈkɔːd/, /<tt>rI"kO:d</tt>/ ''or'' rə'kôd, /rəˈkɔːd/, /<tt>r@"kO:d</tt>/
**{{US}}: rə'kôrd, /rə.ˈkɔrd/, /<tt>r@."kO`d/
**{{audio|en-us-record-verb.ogg|Audio (US), verb}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)d|-ɔː(r)d]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}
#Information put into a lasting physical medium.
#:''The tourist's photographs and the tape of the police call provide a '''record''' of the crime.''
#Information stored on any type of media (paper, server, microfilm, hard drive, etc.) with the intent to preserve the official business of the organization.
#The most extreme known value of some achievement, particularly in competitive events.
#:''The heat and humidity were both new '''records'''.''
#:''The team set a new '''record''' for most points scored in a quarter.''
#A [[vinyl]] [[disc]]/[[disk]] on which music or other sounds are recorded and may be replayed on a [[phonograph]].
#:''I still like '''records''' better than CDs.''
#{{music}} The music on such a disc/disk.
#:''She's upstairs listening to Kylie's latest '''record'''.''
#{{computing}} A set of [[data]] relating to a single individual or item.

====Synonyms====
*(''information put into a lasting physical medium''):
*(''most extreme known value''):
*(''vinyl disk''): [[disc]]/[[disk]]
*(''music''): [[disc]]/[[disk]]

====Derived terms====
*[[record-breaking]]
*[[public record]]
*[[world record]]

====Translations====

'''information put into a lasting physical medium'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[纪录]]
*Finnish: [[tallenne]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[enregistrement]] {{m}}
*Lithuanian: [[įrašas]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''most extreme known value of some achievement'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[纪录]]
*Finnish: [[ennätys]]
{{mid}}
*French: record {{m}}
*Lithuanian: [[rekordas]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''vinyl disc/disk'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[唱片]]
*Finnish: [[äänilevy]], [[LP-levy]], [[levy]]
*French: [[disque]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[lemez]]
*Italian: [[disco#Italian|disco]] {{m}}
*Lithuanian: [[diskas]] {{m}}, [[plokštelė]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''music on such a disc/disk'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[唱片]]
*Finnish: [[levy]]
*French: [[disque]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[disco#Italian|disco]] {{m}}
*Lithuanian: [[įrašas]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''computing: set of data relating to a single individual or item'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tietue]]
*French: [[enregistrement]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Lithuanian: [[įrašas]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To make a record of information.
#: ''I wanted to '''record''' every detail of what happened, for the benefit of future generations.''
# Specifically, to make an audio or video recording of.
#: ''Within a week they had '''recorded''' both the song and the video for it.''
# {{law}} To give legal status to by making an official public record.
#: ''When the deed was '''recorded''', we officially owned the house.''

'''make a record of'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tallentaa]], [[taltioida]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''make an audio or video recording of'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tallentaa]], [[nauhoittaa]], [[äänittää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''give legal status to by making an official public record'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[recorder]]
*[[recording]]

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To fix in a medium, usually in a tangible medium.
# To make an audio, video, or multimedia recording.


====Translations====

'''make audio or video recording'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective=== <!-- Or is it just an attributive noun? -->
'''record''' {{notcomp}} (''used only before the noun'')

#Establishing a new best achievement or extreme value.
#:''Despite the '''record''' heat and humidity, they ran in record time.''

====Translations====

'''establishing a new best achievement'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English heteronyms]]

----

==French==

===Noun===
'''record''' (''plural'' '''records''')
#record (''most extreme known value of some achievement'')

[[da:record]]
[[de:record]]
[[et:record]]
[[fa:record]]
[[fr:record]]
[[io:record]]
[[it:record]]
[[hu:record]]
[[pl:record]]
[[fi:record]]
[[ta:record]]
[[vi:record]]
[[zh:record]]