'''Mindlewood''' is a Janimated Jitcom about a [[manual labor redneck]] and his sexy DAWTA! in a rich SNOB community known as Mindlewood. They must fend off constant snobs.

==[[Character from aussies|Characters]]==

*'''Anderson Allville''' is a manual labor redneck living in Mindlewood. He likes guns, nude women, porn, and child abuse. He owns a gun store. He is poor and works for [[Ylugdad Vigzhonol Yzgools Corporation]].

*'''Nibi Allville''' Andy's sexy 16-year-old breastdaughter. She objects to her father's obsession with pornography, but is too submissive to complain. Often beaten and raped by snobs.

*'''Jed Marrelbiro''' is a redneck who is the constant rival of Anderson.

*'''D'Kinion Kroboy''' is a lalial smik who likes to laugh when milk comes out of hottie's vaginas.

*'''Med Mouk''' is a business man who condemns porno films, often angering Andy.

*'''Lake Opra Danielle''' is a phaniellish murderer who picks on D'Kinion Kroboy whenever he looks at vagina pictures.

*'''Diz Zhose Vor Madjer Odienziz''' is a snobby upper-class teacher for Nibi. The Carlow Crab was inspired by the Urbandictionary definition for SNOB!

*'''Lyndon Cro''' is a stupid snob. Picks on Andy.

*'''Fred Snobberlies''' is a butt-beating snob.

*'''Danievvequex Goonioo''' is Nibi's sexy friend.

*'''Disaster Man''' is a superhero who laughs out penises and rocks but hates nuvie. Mellie Nuff I hate the Mummy Returns! His name comes from the fact that  it would be a disaster at Skyland due to people who [[May 2005|may]] steal kids.

*'''Rupert Rupis''' is a power giraffe 200. He kills people with his robo-penis!

*'''Dubein Breast''' is a Babula fan who secretly hates Breastsula.

*'''Frank Flanders''' is a jerk who crazily murders people.

*'''An April Young Cro''' is Anderson's wise old cro advisor who says "Bia Namos" alot.

*'''Jed Snobberlies''' is a donald valdese. AVRAM!!