==English==

===Etymology===
Latin [[reducere]], [[reductum]]; pref. red-. re-, re- + ducere to lead.  See [[Duke]], and compare with [[Redoubt]], n.

===Pronunciation===
*IPA: [[WEAE]] /ɹiˈdus/
*SAMPA: /rI"dju:s/
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-uːs|-uːs]]

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|reduces|reducing|reduced}}
# To bring to any inferior state, with respect to rank, size, quantity, quality, value, etc.; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; to impair; as, to reduce a sergeant to the ranks; to reduce a drawing; to reduce expenses; to reduce the intensity of heat. ``An ancient but reduced family.'' --Sir W. Scott.
#:    Nothing so excellent but a man may fasten upon something belonging to it, to reduce it. --Tillotson.
#:    Having reduced Their foe to misery beneath their fears. --Milton.
#:    Hester Prynne was shocked at the condition to which she found the clergyman reduced. --Hawthorne.
# To bring to terms; to humble; to conquer; to subdue; to capture; as, to reduce a province or a fort.       <!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->
# {{chemistry}} To add [[electrons]] to or remove [[hydrogen]].
# {{cooking}} To heat on a stove, to partly solidify or decrease the liquid content by boiling much of it off.

====Translation====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[减少]] (jianshao), [[减小]] (jianxiao)
*Dutch: [[reduceren]]
*Finnish: [[vähentää]] (1), [[supistaa]] (1), [[pienentää]] (1)
*French: [[diminuer]], [[réduire]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[ridurre]]
*Japanese: [[減らす]] ([[へらす]]), [[強いる]] ([[しいる]], shiiru); [[減る]] ([[へる]])
*German: [[reduzieren]]
*[[Korean]]: [[빼다]] (bbae-da), [[줄이다]] (jul-i-da), [[Hanja]]: [[감소]] (gamso)
{{bottom}}

====Related terms====
*[[reducible]]
*[[reduction]]

[[fr:reduce]]
[[io:reduce]]
[[it:reduce]]
[[ja:reduce]]
[[fi:reduce]]
[[vi:reduce]]
[[zh:reduce]]