==English==
{{wikipedia|Reformism}}

===Etymology===
[[reform|Reform]] + [[-ist]]

===Noun===
'''reformist''' (''sometimes capitalized'')
#One who advocates reform in the Church; a Reformer. (Common in 17th c.)
#*'''1589:''' [[w:Gabriel Harvey|Gabriel Harvey]], ''Pierces Supererogation or a new praise of the old asse'' 11 Addit. F f, - The forward Zeale of dowtie Martin Seniour, ... and some other bragge '''Reformistes'''.
#*'''1590:''' Greenwood, ''Confer.'' Pref. A ij, Considering the reformist Preachers are now become the BB's<!--possible period here--> trustie actors.
#*'''1608:''' H. Clapham, ''Errour Left Hand'' 36 He differs much from the most of our Reformistes heere at home.
#*'''1693:''' John Edwards, ''Author, O. &amp; N. Test.'' 310 Among the reformists you will see this more plainly attested.
#*'''1791:''' [[w:Frances Burney|Frances Burney]] (later Mme. D'Arblay), ''Diary'' 3 Aug. - The winton inhabitants &hellip; ran up a slight wall before it [the altar], and deceived the '''Reformists'''.
#*'''1826:''' William E. Andrews, ''Crit. Rev. Fox's Bk. Mart. II.'' 312 Their judges were cold and calculating reformists.
#*'''1850:''' ''Elder's House'' 97 So you see that all the Reformists have not given up the doctrine of confession.
#*'''1882:''' ''Macm. Mag.'' XLV 449 Mrs. Ashley &hellip; was put into the Tower, apparently on suspicion of Reformist sympathies.
#An advocate or supporter of political reform. (Common ''c'' 1792 to 1830.)
#*'''1641:''' ''News from Hell, etc.'' in ''Harl. Misc. (Malh.)'' IV. 393 The subtle practices of some parliamentary reformists.
#*'''1792:''' Windham, ''Speeches Parl.'' (1812) I. App. C. 155 Yet these [the Jacobins] are the men whom our Reformists are known to correspond with.
#*'''1817:''' [[w:Jeremy Bentham|Jeremy Bentham]], ''Plan of Parliamentary Reform, in the Form of a Catechism'', 104 - By a radical '''reformist''', the Householder plan could not be refused to any Electoral District.
#*'''1830:''' Lady Granville, ''Lett.'' (1894) II. 62, I have been to see the Staffords, violent reformists.
#*'''1893:''' ''Columbus'' (Ohio) ''Disp.'' 10 July. The general policy of the party has been enough to break the strength of the so-called Reformists.
#*'''1906:''' M. Minturn tr. ''Jaurès's Stud. in Socialism'' p. vi, The situation reached its climax in 1899 with the entrance of the Reformist Millerand into the Waldeck-Rousseau coalition cabinet. 
#*'''1913:''' V. G. Simkhovitch, ''Marxism versus Socialism,'' 292. Whether they call themselves revisionists, reformists, laborites or plain socialists..the overwhelming majority of the socialists of today are tending to be reformers. 
#*'''1941:''' [[wikipedia:Arthur Koestler|Arthur Koestler]], ''Scum of Earth,'' xi. 113. The sectarian hatred between Stalinists, Trotskyists, and Reformists still existed.
# {{obsolete}}: A member of a reformed religious order. (''Frères Mineurs de l'Étroite-Observance en Italie'' or ''Riformati'').  There were apparently three orders known as "Réformés" but Cotgrave applies this to only the one noted. See Hélyot.
#*'''1611:''' [[w:Randle Cotgrave|Randle Cotgrave]], ''A Dictionarie of the French and English Tongues'' - Reformez, '''Reformists''' an Order of Franciscan Fryers. ''See [http://www.pbm.com/~lindahl/cotgrave/801.html Cotgrave]
#*'''1707:''' Phillips (ed. Kersey), ''Reformists'', Monks, whose Discipline, or Rules have been reformed.

===Adjective===
#advocating political reform
#*'''1849:''' [[w:Edgar Allan Poe|Edgar Allan Poe]],  "Marginalia" Part XVI in ''Southern Literary Messenger'', July 1849 - The modern '''reformist''' Philosophy which annihilates the individual by way of aiding the mass; and the late '''reformist''' Legislation, which prohibits pleasure with the view of advancing happiness, seem to be chips of that old block of a French feudal law which, to prevent young partridges from being disturbed, imposed penalites upon hoeing and weeding.
#*'''1913''' [[w:Émile Faguet|Émile Faguet]], ''Initiation into Literature'' translated by Sir [[w:Home Gordon|Home Gordon]], Bart - all the prose is German, all reformist, all moralising, and has little or practically no echo of antiquity.
<!--http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/etext05/8ilit10.txt-->
#*'''1920''' ''19th Cent.'' Aug. 206. England..allowed the right of private judgment to her middle classes in the seventeenth century and allowed every kind of Reformist literature to enter the country. 
#*'''1927''' [[wikipedia:Harold Laski|Harold Joseph Laski]], ''Communism'' i. 39. The growth of capitalism..seemed to suggest that the day of its end was far distant. Everywhere there grew up reformist socialism.
#*'''1950''' [[wikipedia:Edward Hallett Carr|Edward Hallett Carr]], ''Bolshevik Revolution,'' I. i. 12. The ‘Economists’..reached the same practical conclusion as the legal Marxists that it was necessary to postpone to an indefinite future the revolutionary socialist struggle of the proletariat and to concentrate meanwhile on a reformist democratic programme in alliance with the bourgeoisie.
#*'''1969''' ''Daily Telegraph,'' 1 Feb. 19/3. An article published in Soviet newspapers yesterday blamed ‘reformist’ journalists for the ‘moral tenor’ in Czechoslovak life.
#*'''1974''' tr. ''Sniekus's Soviet Lithuania,'' 12. A reformist opportunist trend..had developed on the basis of the petty-bourgeois nationalistic ideology.
#*'''1977''' ''Time,'' 14 Nov. 16/3. The situation in Italy is too critical for a reformist policy like the one the Communists propose.

===References===
*{{R:OED}}
*Hélyot, ''Dictionnaire des Ordres Religieux'', Paris, Migne, 1850
{{seeCites}} ''(Entry for [[reformist/OED|reformist]] in the Oxford English Dictionary, first edition.)''