{{wikipediapar|Relish}}
==English==
[[category:Condiments]]

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-relish.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es}}

#A pleasing taste; flavor that gratifies the [[palate]]; hence, enjoyable quality; power of pleasing.
#Savor; quality; characteristic tinge.
#A taste for; liking; [[appetite]]; [[fondness]].
#That which is used to impart a flavor; specifically, something taken with food to render it more palatable or to stimulate the appetite; a condiment.
#A [[cooked]] or [[pickled]] [[sauce]], usually made with [[vegetable]]s or [[fruit]]s, generally used as a [[condiment]].
#In a wooden frame, the projection or shoulder at the side of, or around, a [[tenon]], on a tenoned piece.

====Translations====
*Czech: [[požitek]] {{m}} (1), [[potěšení]] {{n}} (1), [[příchuť]] {{f}} (2)

===Verb===
{{en-verb|relish|es}}

#To taste or eat with pleasure; to like the flavor of.
#:''I '''relish''' a good tuna sandwich.''
#To take great pleasure in something; to [[enjoy]]; to approach with [[zeal]] or [[enthusiasm]]; to be pleased with or gratified by; to experience pleasure from.
#:''He '''relishes''' their time together.''
#:''I don't '''relish''' the idea of finishing so much tonight.''
#{{obsolete}} To give a relish to; to cause to taste agreeably.
#{{obsolete}} To have a pleasing or [[appetizing]] taste; to give [[gratification]]; to have a flavor.

====Translations====
*Czech: [[vychutnávat si]], [[mít požitek]]
*French: savourer

====Synonyms====
*[[appreciate]]
*[[delight in]]
*[[enjoy]]
*[[like]]
*[[revel]]

[[fr:relish]]
[[io:relish]]
[[vi:relish]]