Just a place to play in the sand... [[User:BDAbramson|<font style="background:lightgreen">''BDAbramson''</font>]] [[User talk:BDAbramson|'''T''']] 00:38, 12 April 2006 (UTC)
----
[[Deism]]
[[deism]]
[[Deist]]
[[deist]]
[[Deists]]
[[deists]]
[[Deistic]]
[[deistic]]
[[Deistical]]
[[deistical]]
[[Deistically]]
[[deistically]]
[[Pantheism]]
[[pantheism]]
[[Pan-theism]]
[[pan-theism]]
[[Pan-Theism]]
[[Pan Theism]]
[[Pan theism]]
[[pan theism]]
[[Pantheist]]
[[pantheist]]
[[Pan-theist]]
[[pan-theist]]
[[Pan-Theist]]
[[Pan Theist]]
[[Pan theist]]
[[pan theist]]
[[Pantheists]]
[[pantheists]]
[[Pan-theists]]
[[pan-theists]]
[[Pan-Theists]]
[[Pan Theists]]
[[Pan theists]]
[[pan theists]]
[[Pantheistic]]
[[pantheistic]]
[[Pan-theistic]]
[[pan-theistic]]
[[Pan-Theistic]]
[[Pan Theistic]]
[[Pan theistic]]
[[pan theistic]]
[[Pantheistical]]
[[pantheistical]]
[[Pan-theistical]]
[[pan-theistical]]
[[Pan-Theistical]]
[[Pan Theistical]]
[[Pan theistical]]
[[pan theistical]]
[[Pantheistically]]
[[pantheistically]]
[[Pan-theistically]]
[[pan-theistically]]
[[Pan-Theistically]]
[[Pan Theistically]]
[[Pan theistically]]
[[pan theistically]]
[[Pandeism]]
[[pandeism]]
[[Pan-deism]]
[[pan-deism]]
[[Pan-Deism]]
[[Pan Deism]]
[[Pan deism]]
[[pan deism]]
[[Pandeist]]
[[pandeist]]
[[Pan-deist]]
[[pan-deist]]
[[Pan-Deist]]
[[Pan Deist]]
[[Pan deist]]
[[pan deist]]
[[Pandeists]]
[[pandeists]]
[[Pan-deists]]
[[pan-deists]]
[[Pan-Deists]]
[[Pan Deists]]
[[Pan deists]]
[[pan deists]]
[[Pandeistic]]
[[pandeistic]]
[[Pan-deistic]]
[[pan-deistic]]
[[Pan-Deistic]]
[[Pan Deistic]]
[[Pan deistic]]
[[pan deistic]]
[[Pandeistical]]
[[pandeistical]]
[[Pan-deistical]]
[[pan-deistical]]
[[Pan-Deistical]]
[[Pan Deistical]]
[[Pan deistical]]
[[pan deistical]]
[[Pandeistically]]
[[pandeistically]]
[[Pan-deistically]]
[[pan-deistically]]
[[Pan-Deistically]]
[[Pan Deistically]]
[[Pan deistically]]
[[pan deistically]]

----

:''I think '''Pandeism''' was system; &mdash; and that when I say the country or kingdom of Pandæa, I express myself in a manner similar to what I should do, if I said the Popish kingdom or the kingdoms of Popery; or again, the Greeks have many idle ceremonies in their church, meaning the Greeks of all nations: or, the countries of the Pope are superstitions, &c. At the same time, I beg to be understood as not denying that there was such a kingdom as that of Pandae, the daughter of Cristna, any more than I would deny that there was a kingdom of France ruled by the eldest son of the church, or the eldest son of the Pope.''
:''We have seen that though Cristna was said to have left many sons, he left his immense empire, which extended from the sources of the Indus to Cape Comorin, (for we find a Regio Pandionis near this point,) to his daughter Pandæa; but, from finding the icon of Buddha so constantly shaded with the nine Cobras, &c., I am induced to think that this Pandeism was a doctrine, which had been received both by Buddhists and Brahmins.''

::[[w:Godfrey Higgins|Godfrey Higgins]], ''[[w:Anacalypsis|Anacalypsis: An Attempt to Draw Aside the Veil of the Saitic Isis: Or an Inquiry into the Origin of Languages, Nations and Religions]]'' (1833), p.439.

----

:'The Unknowable is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble,' is what would occur to no man to think or say." But one may fairly ask whether man would be any more likely, in the searching emergencies which beset all lives more or less, to invoke the "Power not-ourselves which makes for righteousness." One wonders if even Arnold himself meant no more than this when, an alien in a strange land, his heart went out from distant America to the sanctities of his serene home amongst the Surrey hills, and he wrote to his daughter, "God bless you, my own precious Nell!"

:But whatever the deity which satisfied Arnold's personal experience may have been, the religion which he gives us in Literature and Dogma and God and the Bible is neither Deism nor bare Pan-Deism, but a diluted Positivism. As an ethical system it is in theory admirable, but its positive value is in the highest degree questionable. Pascal's judgment upon the God who emerged from the philosophical investigations of Rene Descartes was that He was a God who was unnecessary. And one may with even greater truth say that the man who is able to receive and live by the religion which Arnold offers him is no longer in need of its help and stimulus. To be able to appreciate an ethical idealism a man must himself be already an ethical idealist.

::--[[w:William Harbutt Dawson|William Harbutt Dawson]], ''Matthew Arnold and His Relation to the Thought of Our Time'' (1904, republished 1977), p. 256 ISBN: 0849206480

----

:''If the Bible is only human lore, and not divine truth, then we have no real answer to those who say, "Let's pick the best out of all religions and blend it all into Pan-Deism - one world religion with one god made out of many"''.

::--[[w:J. Sidlow Baxter|J. Sidlow Baxter]], ''The Most Critical Issue'' (1991)[http://www.pwmi.org/tcf002.htm]

----

:''Heracleitus’ last and most remarkable insight about the cosmos was that fire not only holds in itself, but is the logos, that is, the plan for everything, the principle of all the complex organization that exists in the universe. And since this plan contains instructions for execution that lead to order (which we now call algorithms and are mathematical), the logos, which is boundlessly resourceful, is supremely intelligent and powerful as well, and consequently deserves to be considered the supreme deity. The logos is therefore divine, fire is divine, matter is divine. And since there is nothing in the universe that is not ultimately becoming, fire, and logos, Heracleitus’ view of the cosmos was not only monistic and pantheistic—like that of all of his Pre-Socratic contemporaneous, predecessors or immediate successors—but the purest form of immanentistic pantheism that has ever been conceived, and at the same time the one vision of the universe that is most congruous with what science has taught us recently about the universe. For others, the Big Bang fire may have been a sufficient beginning and end of the divine, the logos that contained all that was necessary to the plan of the universe—that would suffice for pandeism, for the pandeist god is the salmon god – it spawns and it dies.''

::R.G. Mendoza, ''History of Ideas: Pantheism'', (1996)

----

:What appeared here, at the center ot the Pythagorean tradition in philosophy, is another view of ''psyche'' that seems to owe little or nothing to the pan-vitalism or pan-deism (see ''theion'') that is the legacy of the Milesians.

::[[w:F.E. Peters|Francis E. Peters]], ''Greek Philosophical Terms: A Historical Lexicon'', p. 169 (NYU Press 1967). 

----

:''All the actions of created intelligences are not merely the actions of God. He has created a universe of beings which are said to act freely and responsibly as the proximate causes of their own moral actions. When individuals do evil things it is not God the Creator and Preserver acting. If God was the proximate cause of every act it would make all events to be "God in motion". That is nothing less than pantheism, or more exactly, pandeism. The Creator is distinct from his creation. The reality of secondary causes is what separates Christian theism from pandeism.''
:...''calling God the author of sin demand[s] a pandeistic understanding of the universe effectively removing the reality of sin and moral law.'' 

::Bob Burridge, ''God Is Not the Author of Sin'' (1997)[http://www.girs.com/library/theology/syllabus/theo4.html]''

----

:The Korean War has been called the forgotten war, the men who fought there the forgotten warriors.. But Jim Garvin of Albuquerque -- a Marine Corps veteran of that gritty, bitter conflict who went on to become, among many other things, a key figure in attracting blue-chip industries to the city in the '60s and '70s -- just won't let it go. ... [He] describes his current spiritual position as "'pandeism' or 'pan-en-deism,' something very close to the Native American concept of the all- pervading Great Spirit" 
::"Marine's Balled Honors Soldiers, Trappist Monks" ''Albuquerque Journal'' (Saturday, November 11, 1995) B-10

----

:''Spinoza's "Ethics" argues that God is nature (Dues sive Natura) and that all natural law emanates from God/Nature. Therefore, when one acts according to these principles, or laws, one becomes resonate with God/Nature. This resonance leads to beneficent outcomes which could be interpreted as "Divine Providence" even though no separate sentient and cognitive being bestowed blessings in an "unnatural" (i.e., "supernatural") way.''

:''The argument then progresses to the conclusion that the teachings and miracles of the prophets and Jesus were in fact this very resonance achieved by those individuals and manifested by them to the world in accordance with their own individual capacities to understand. The labeling of Spinoza's philosophy as "pantheism" by the Church was meant more as an invective and indictment than a true analysis of his writings. It was really a variant of Deism -- a "pandeism," if I may.''

:''Theism, however, posits something very different. Theism believes that nature was not God, but created BY God. That God is a completely independent sentient and cognitive Being, and that God interacts with his "children" on a personal level (e.g., The Bible).''

::Roncelin de Fos, ''Christian Origins of the U.S.'' (2004)

----

:''Pandeism: The belief that God precedes the universe and is the universe's creator, that the universe is currently the entirety of God, and that the universe will one day coalesce back into a single being, God. Pandeists believe all consciousness, in all life, to be fragments of God's awareness.''

::Christian Forums (c. 2006) [http://www.christianforums.com/t2738327-wiki-pandeism.html]

----

:Pandeism combines the major elements of deism and pantheism, and holds that a transcendent God existed before the universe was created, but that this God became the universe in the course of creating it, and thereby ceased to be an active participant in its operations.

::Theology: Summary, History & List of World Religions & Religious Beliefs. On Morality, Free Will & God (c. 2006)[http://www.spaceandmotion.com/theology-morality-god-world-religions.htm]

----

:Three key concepts guide us with all certainty when defining the terms of Deism, Pandeism, Panendeism, Theism, Pantheism, and Panentheism (Omnientheism). These concepts are transcendence, immanence, and holism of God. 
...
:The terms Theism, Pantheism, and Panentheism have their root in Greek, which is a Biblical language, and therefore it is correct. In a discretionary way we assume that these terms present the idea of a personal, individual God. However, the terms Deism, Pandeism, and Panendeism have their root in Latin, which is not a Biblical language, and therefore it is not correct. These terms present the idea of God like synonymous of Energy or Cosmic Force, because God is not personal here, He is not individual. 
...
:Assuming these definitions of transcendence, immanence, and holism, we can say that Energy or Cosmic Force in Deism is transcendent, but is neither immanent nor holistic. Thus we see that Energy or Cosmic Force in Pandeism is immanent and holistic, but it is not transcendent. However, Energy or Cosmic Force in Panendeism is immanent, transcendent, and holistic. 

::Orlando Alcántara Fernández (Cristorly), ''Omnientheism: GOD According to Biblical Universalist Unitarianism'' (2005)

----

:FREE THINKERS: all people whose beliefs regarding "spirits" are compatible with modern science. Atheism, agnosticism, even Deism and pandeism, are compatible with science. Theism is not.
::The Social Science Undeground, ''GLOSSARY: Terms defined for a real science of society'' (March 2006) [http://humanpurpose.simplenet.com/glossary.html]

----

:''Su visión es pandeísta y debió ser panteísta. Para lograr panteizar el cuadro hace falta Cristo como insignia, sendero y faro. El pandeísmo es impersonal como el presente cuadro en que hombre, naturaleza y palabra se integran, mientras que el panteísmo es personal, vivencia crística de todos los días.'' 
::(translated):
:''His vision is pandeist, and it had to be pantheist. In order to get a pantheist painting, it is necessary to have Christ as pennant, footpath, and lighthouse. Pandeism is impersonal like in the present canvas, in which man, nature and word integrate themselves; whereas pantheism is a personal Christ-like experience of every day.''
::''Meta-Pintores Uno'' (August 2003)[http://www.predicado.com/articulo.php?id=72357]

----