{{see|Republican}}
{{rfc|use of abbreviations, which terms belong on capitalized page?}}
==English==

===Noun===
'''republican'''

# Someone who favours a [[republic]]; an [[anti]]-[[monarchist]].
# {{italbrac|Esp. historical}} Someone who favours social equality and opposes aristocracy and privilege.  ''Sir, there is one Mrs Macaulay in this town, a great republican.  One day when I was at her house, I put on a very grave countenance, and said to her, 'Madam, I am now become a convert to your way of thinking.  I am convinced that all mankind are upon an equal footing...' ''(Boswell, ''The Life of Samuel Johnson'', 1791).   ''Travels of a Republican Radical in Search of Hot Water'' - Title of a collection of essays published by the leftwing novelist H. G. Wells in 1939.
# {{italbrac|Esp. UK & Ireland|usu. capitalized}} A supporter of the more militant or radical wing of Irish nationalism; a proponent of a united Ireland (often with the suggestion that violent means may be acceptable if necessary, in contrast to ''Nationalist'' views).
# {{italbrac|Hist.|usu. capitalized}} A supporter of the government side or leftwing side in the Spanish Civil War.
# {{italbrac|US|usu. capitalized}} A member or supporter of one of the two major US political parties, the Republican Party; a conservative. Supports the U.S. constitution, individual responsibility, capitalism, the right to life and the war on terrorism.
# (''US'', ''pl.'', ''usu. capitalized'', '''the Republicans''') the Republican Party.

====Synonyms====
*[[anti-monarchist]] (1)
*[[anti-royalist]] (1)
*[[egalitarian]] (2)
*[[anti-fascist]] (4)
*[[rational]] (5)

===Adjective===
'''republican'''

# The public thing.
# Of or belonging to a republic.
# Favouring a republic.
# {{italbrac|Esp. UK & Ireland|usu. capitalized}} Supporting or belonging to the militant wing of Irish nationalism {{italbrac|The Republican movement}}.  ''The Republican Party'', an old-fashioned name for Sinn Fein, a socialist Republican party in Ireland.
# {{italbrac|Hist.|usu. capitalized}} Favouring the Republic in the Spanish Civil War; anti-Nationalist, anti-insurgent.
# {{italbrac|US|usu. capitalized}} Of or belonging to, or adhering to, the Republican Party.

[[it:republican]]
[[pl:republican]]
[[vi:republican]]