==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)v|-ɜː(r)v]]

===Noun===

'''reserve'''

#The act of reserving, or keeping back; reservation.
#That which is reserved, or kept back, as for future use.
#That which is excepted; exception.
#Restraint of freedom in words or actions; backwardness; caution in personal behavior.
#A tract of land reserved, or set apart, for a particular purpose; as, the Connecticut Reserve in Ohio, originally set apart for the school fund of Connecticut; the Clergy Reserves in Canada, for the support of the clergy.
#A body of troops in the rear of an army drawn up for battle, reserved to support the other lines as occasion may require; a force or body of troops kept for an exigency.
#A member of a sports team who does not participate from the start of the game, who can be used to replace tired or injured team-mates.
#Funds kept on hand to meet liabilities.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[varaus]] (1), [[varaaminen]] (1), [[suojelualue]] (4), [[reservaatti]] (4), [[reservi]] (5,6), [[varanto]] (6), [[vararahasto]] (6)
*German: [[Reservieren]] ''n'' (1), [[Reserve]] ''f'' (2,6), [[Reserviertheit]] ''f'' (4)

===Verb===

'''to reserve'''

#To keep back; to retain; not to deliver, make over, or disclose.
#Hence, to keep in store for future or special use; to withhold from present use for another purpose or time; to keep; to retain.
#To make an exception of; to except.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[varata]] (1,2), [[panna]] [[talteen]] (2), [[säästää]] (2)
*German: [[reservieren]] (2)

[[ar:reserve]]
[[fa:reserve]]
[[fr:reserve]]
[[io:reserve]]
[[hu:reserve]]
[[pt:reserve]]
[[ta:reserve]]
[[vi:reserve]]
[[zh:reserve]]