{{see|retiré}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪə(r)|-aɪə(r)]]

===Noun===
'''retire'''  (''plural:'' [[retires]])

# {{rare}} The act of [[retiring]], or the state of being [[retired]]; also, a place to which one retires.
#: ''His '''retire''' is by a lake.''
# {{dated}} A [[call]] sounded on a [[bugle]], announcing to [[skirmisher]]s that they are to retire, or fall back.
#: At the '''retire''', the cavalry fell back.'''

===Transitive Verb===
'''to retire'''  ([[retires]], [[retired]], [[retiring]])

# To [[withdraw]]; to take away; -- sometimes used reflexively.
#: ''He '''retired''' himself from the party.''
# To withdraw from [[circulation]], or from the [[market]]; to take up and pay; as, to retire bonds; to retire a note.
#: ''The central bank '''retired''' those notes five years ago.''
# To cause to retire; specifically, to designate as no longer qualified for active service; to place on the retired list; as, to retire a military or naval officer.
#: ''The board '''retired''' the old major.''
# {{cricket}} of a [[batsman]], to [[voluntarily]] [[stop]] [[batting]] so that the next batsman can [[bat]]
#: ''Jones '''retired''' in favor of Smith.''
# {{baseball}} of a [[fielder]], to make a defensive play which results in a runner or the batter being [[put out]]
#: ''Jones '''retired''' Smith 6-3.''

===Intransitive Verb===
'''to retire'''  ([[retires]], [[retired]], [[retiring]])

# To go back or return; to draw back or away; to keep [[aloof]]; to withdraw or retreat, as from observation; to go into [[privacy]]; as, to retire to his home; to retire from the world, or from notice.
#: I will '''retire''' to the study.''
# To retreat from action or danger; to withdraw for safety or pleasure; as, to retire from battle.
#: ''The regiment '''retired''' from the fray after the Major was killed.''
# To withdraw from a public station, or from business; as, having made a large fortune, he retired.
#: ''He wants to '''retire''' at 55.''
# To [[recede]]; to fall or bend back; as, the shore of the sea retires in bays and gulfs.
#: ''Past the point, the shore '''retires''' into a sequence of coves.'' 
# To go to [[bed]]; as, he usually retires early.
#: ''I will '''retire''' for the night.''

[[da:retire]]
[[fr:retire]]
[[io:retire]]
[[vi:retire]]
[[zh:retire]]