==English==

{{rank|second|United|free|348|return|call|speak|land}}

===Etymology===
From French ''[[retourner]]'' &gt; Latin ''[[re-]]'' + ''[[tornare]]''; see [[turn]].

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)n|-ɜː(r)n]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To give something [[back]] to its original holder/owner.
# To take something [[back]] to a retailer for a refund.
# To come back after some period of time, or at regular intervals.
# To go back in thought, narration, or argument. "But to '''return''' to my story."
# {{cattag|Tennis}}: To bat the ball in response to a serve over the net.
# {{cattag|Card games}}: To play a card as a result of another player's lead; '''return''' a trump.
# {{cricket}} To [[throw]] a [[ball]] back to the [[wicket-keeper]] (or a [[fielder]] at that position) from somewhere in the [[field]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Croatian: [[vratiti]]
*Chinese: [[返回]]
*Dutch: [[terugkeren]]
*Filipino: [[magbalík]]
*French: [[retourner]]
*Greek: [[επιστροφή]]
*Italian: [[ritornare]]
*Japanese:　[[帰る]]　(kaeru)
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[oddać]] (1,2), [[wrócić]] (3,4), [[powrócić]] (3)
*Portuguese: [[devolver]] (1,2), [[restituir]] (1,2), [[retornar]] (3), [[voltar]] (3,4)
*Romanian: [[reveni]], [[returna]]
*Russian: [[возвратить]]
*Slovene: [[vrniti]] (1,2,5), [[vrniti se]] (3,4)
*Spanish: [[devolver]] (1,2), [[volver]] (3), [[regresar]] (3,4)
*Swedish: [[återlämna]] (1), [[returnera]] (1,5), [[återvända]] (3,4)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{computing}} A character that indicates a new line.  Hexadecimal %x0d, decimal 13.  <!--Move to etymology?-->Old typewriters had a carraige that lined up the paper with the printing strike-arms; with the advent of electronic typewriters, the "carraige return" key would realign the printing at the left margin, and advance to a new line.  Early computers added <CR><LF> (13,10) to indicate a new line, with variations such as <LF> (10), <CR> (13) and even <LF><CR> (10,13).  Modern computer use has expanded the meaning to denote a new paragraph. 
# An item that is '''returned'''.
# {{computing}} To go [[back]] from a called procedure to the procedure that called it. <!---''The act of'' going back?--->
# {{cattag2|Taxation|Finance}}: A report of income submitted to a government for purposes of specifying exact tax payment amounts.  A [[tax return]].
# The act of a person '''returning'''.  "Upon my '''return'''..."
# A short extention (perpendicular) of a desk, usually slightly lower.
# {{finance}} the income arising from an investment.  "It yields a '''return''' of 5%..."
# {{cattag|Football (American)}}: Catching a ball after a [[punt]], and running it back towards the opposing team.
# {{cricket}} A [[throw]] from a [[fielder]] to the [[wicket-keeper]] or to another fielder at the [[wicket]].

====Translations====
*Croatian: [[povratak]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[zwrot]] (2), [[powrót]] (5)
*Swedish: [[retur]] {{c}} (1,2), [[vagnretur]] {{c}} (1, {{obsolete}}), [[återkomst]] (5), [[återbäring]] (7)

===Anagrams===
*[[turner]]

[[fr:return]]
[[io:return]]
[[it:return]]
[[hu:return]]
[[fi:return]]
[[ta:return]]
[[vi:return]]
[[zh:return]]