==English==
=== Pronunciation ===
*rĭng, /rɪŋ/, /<tt>rIN</tt>
*:'''Homophones''': [[wring]]
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪŋ|Rhymes: -ɪŋ]]

===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[hring]]'' (circular band); confer German ''[[Ring]]''.

==== Noun ====
{{en-noun|ring|rings}}

# A [[round]] piece of ([[precious]]) [[metal]] [[worn]] around the [[finger]].
# A [[round]] piece of [[metal]] put around a [[bird]]'s [[leg]] used for identification and studies of [[migration]].
# A place where some sports take place; as, a boxing ring.
# A [[group]] of people, usually involving some unethical or illegal practices; as a Crime ring.
# {{mathematics}} An [[algebraic]] [[structure]] which is a [[group]] under [[addition]] and a [[monoid]] under [[multiplication]].
# {{geometry}} A [[planar]] [[geometrical]] [[figure]] included between two [[concentrical]] [[circle]]s.
#<!--Verify etymology, please--> An old English [[measure]] of [[corn]] equal to the [[coomb]] or half a [[quarter]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1866''': The ring is common in the Huntingdonshire accounts of Ramsey Abbey.  It was equal to half a quarter, i.e. is identical with the coomb of the eastern counties. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 1, p. 168.

===== Translations =====
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[gwalenn]] ''f'', [[bizoù]] ''m'' (1), [[ring]] (3)
*[[Catalan]]: [[anell]] ''m''
*Dutch: ring ''m''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ringo]]
*Finnish: [[sormus]] (1), [[rengas]] (2), [[kehä]] (3), [[rinki]] (4)
*French: [[anneau]] ''m'', [[bague]] ''f''
*German: [[Ring]] ''m'' (1,2,3,4,5,6)
*Greek: [[δακτύλιος]] ''m'' (5) 
*Indonesian: [[cincin]]
*Irish: [[fáinne]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[指輪]] ([[ゆびわ]], yubiwa), [[リング]] (ringu)
*Polish: [[pierścionek]] ''m'' (1 with stone), [[obrączka]] ''f'' (1 without stone, 2), ring ''m'' (3), [[klika]] ''f'' (4), [[pierścień]] ''m'' (5,6)
*Romanian: [[inel]] ''n''
*Slovene: [[prstan]] ''m'' (1), [[obroček]] ''m'' (2), [[ring]] ''m'' (3), [[kolobar]] ''m'' (6)
*Spanish: [[anillo]] ''m''
*Swedish: ring (1,2,3,5,6)
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Verb is from Old English ''[[hringan]]''.
====Noun====
{{en-noun|ring|rings}}
# A [[pleasant]] or [[correct]] [[sound]].
#:''The name has a nice '''ring''' to it.
=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*German: [[Klang]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

==== Verb ====
{{irregverb|'''to ring'''|'''[[rings]]'''|'''[[rang]]'''|'''[[rung]]'''|'''[[ringing]]'''}}

#''(intransitive)'' To produce the sound of a [[bell]] or a similar sound.
#:''Whose mobile phone is '''ringing'''?''
#''(transitive)'' To make a ([[church]]) [[bell]] produce sound.
#:''The deliveryman '''rang''' the doorbell to drop off a parcel.''
#''(intransitive)'' Of something spoken or written, to [[appear]] to be, to [[seem]], to [[sound]].
#:''That does not '''ring''' true.''
===== Translations =====
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[seniñ]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[dringar]] (1) [[trucar]] (only door-bell), [[fer sonar]] (2)
*Dutch: [[bellen]] (1), [[luiden]] (2), [[weergalmen]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[sonori]]
*Finnish: [[soittaa]]
*French: [[sonner]]
*German: [[läuten]] (1, 2), [[klingeln]] (1), [[klingen]] (3)
*Indonesian: bel [[bunyi|berbunyi]], [[bunyi|membunyikan]] bel
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[鳴らす]] ([[ならす]], narasu), [[鳴る]] ([[なる]], naru)
*Latin: [[tintinare]]
*Polish: [[dzwonić]] (1), [[uderzać]] (w dzwon) (2) 
*Romanian: [[suna]] (1) [[bate]] (2)
*Spanish: [[sonar]]
*Swedish: [[ringa]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[ringtone]]


[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

----

==Dutch ==
=== Noun ===
'''ring''' ''m''

==== Translations ====
*English: ring

----

==Balinese==
'''ring'''

# [[in]], [[at]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Jewelry]]

[[fr:ring]]
[[it:ring]]
[[nl:ring]]
[[pl:ring]]
[[sv:ring]]