==English==
===Etymology===
From [[ring]] + [[worm]], being descriptive of what it looks like.
===Noun===
'''ringworm'''
#A [[contagious]] [[affliction]] of the skin, characterised by ring-shaped discoloured patches, covered by [[vesicle]]s or [[scales]] and caused by a [[fungus]].
#*"As listed above, in [[superficial]] [[mycoses]] infection is localised to the skin, the hair, and the nails. An example is '''ringworm''' or [[tinea]], an infection of the skin by a [[dermatophyte]]. Ringworm refers to the characteristic central clearing that often occurs in dermatophyte infections of the skin. Dermatophyte members of the genera '''Trycophyton''', [[Microsporum]] and [[Epidermophyton]] are responsible for the disease. Tinea can infect various sites of the body, including the scalp (tinea capitis), the beard (tinea barbae) the foot (tinea pedis: "[[athlete's foot]]") and the groin (tinea cruris). All occur in the United Kingdom although tinea infections, other than pedis, are now rare.
===Historical note===
#:Citing The Universal Dictionary of the English Language, 1896 (4 vols):
#:In the 19th century manifestations of ringworm were attributed to ''Trichophyton tonsurans'', said to be "a white parasitic fungus, ''Achorion Lebertii''.  Ringworm of the body was ''Tinea sycosis'', of the beard ''Tinea circinatus'', of the groin ''Tinea cruris'' ("occurring esp. in males"), of the scalp ''tinea favosa'', the last being also known as "honeycomb ringworm" or "plica") from the honeycombed appearance of the scalp. Remedies for ringworm included "sulfurous acid and glycerine or iodine."
http://www-micro.msb.le.ac.uk/MBChB/6a.html - 17k - 1 Mar 2006