==English==

===Etymology===
*from French ''riposte'' taken from Italian ''riposta'' a derivative of the verb''rispondere'' to respond.
===Noun===
'''ripost''' (also '''''[[riposte]]'''''; ''plural:'' [[riposts]])
#''(in fencing)'' A thrust given in return after parrying a lunge.
#A quick and usually witty response to a taunt 
#An answer or reply, rapidly uttered, in response to a question or problem.
#*[http://www.psa.ac.uk/psanews/9912/p3.htm]. 
#*The French government was always apprehensive to the German Government’s '''ripost''' to an air offensive. ''Brasseys Annual: The Armed Forces Year-book edited. Thomas Allnut Brassey Praeger Publishers p. 306.''
#* '''2005''' Written as a '''ripost''' to Samuel Constant’s short story Le Mari sentimental, in which the husband is driven to despair and ultimately suicide by his [[carping]] wife, Mistress Henly begins with an account of the wife’s reading of the Constant story and how as a reader she links the text of imagination to the realities of her own life. ''Title:Through The Reading Glass ISBN:0791464210 Publisher:SUNY Press. Author Suellen Diaconoff. Publication Date: Apr 7, 2005 Page:110''


====References====
#:Random House says, "'''riposte''', ''n., v.,'' -post-ed, -post-ing. &mdash;''n.'' '''1.''' etc. '''2.''' etc. &mdash;''v.i.'' '''3.''' to make a riposte. '''4.''' to reply or retaliate. Also '''ripost’'''." 
:: Websters 1902 & Websters 1913 both have it as defined. 

===Translations===
*Italian: [[riposta]]
*Spanish: [[respuesta]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[riposta]]
*French: [[ripost]]