==English==
===Adverb===
{{en-ad|rockily}}

# in an [[uneven]] way
# in a manner suggestive of a [[rock]] or [[rock]]s
#*'''1956''', “Apple a Day”, ''The Times''
#*:Ten minutes before serving whisk up the whites of eggs with a little sugar and pile '''rockily''' on top.
#*[http://www.dartmouth.edu/~doc/mountainbiking/roundsmartsmountain/]
#*:After the trail reaches the height of land, it descends sometimes steeply and often '''rockily'''.
#*'''1924''', Maurice Magnus, ''Memoirs of the Foreign Legion''
#*:Roads, railway, river, streams, a world in accurate and lively detail, with mountains sticking up abruptly and '''rockily''', as the old painters painted it.
#* [http://etcweb1.princeton.edu/CampusWWW/Companion/goheen_robert.html]
#*:Patient, always humane and trustworthy, he is personally humble at the very time that he is '''rockily''' steadfast (an unsympathetic witness might say stubborn), not because he fails to understand and respect the views of others but because he refuses to compromise his own enduring values.
# [[unsteadily]]
#* [http://www.trumanlibrary.org/hoover/mccoy1.htm]
#*:They would gain much in common only slowly, and I should add '''rockily''', for the early stages of their acquaintance was based substantially on mutual self-interest.
#*'''2006''' February 24, Liz Jensen, “Ludmila's Broken English, by D B C Pierre”, ''The Independent'' [http://enjoyment.independent.co.uk/books/reviews/article347285.ece]
#*:Having murdered her lecherous grandfather as he attempts an anal assault, Ludmila finds herself catapulted into a '''rockily''' conceived exercise in damage-control
#* [http://www.planetout.com/entertainment/starstruck/feature/?sernum=34]
#*:At 13 Drew was using cocaine, and by the time she was 16 the '''rockily'''-rehabbed actress was co-authoring an autobiography about it all.
# in a menner suggestive of [[rock music]]
#*[http://www.albemarle-london.com/notredame.html]
#*:The music of Richard Cocciante, the book and lyrics of Luc Plamondon, with the lyrics translated by Will Jennings, are consistently and '''rockily''' entertaining
#* [http://www.atticlights.co.uk/about.html]
#*:Top of the three here is “Ton Of Love”, a back beaten Tom Petty-ish album tracker with Beach Boy backing vox, slick and, get this, '''rockily''' abrasive.
# in a [[rocking]] manner
#* [http://www.michaelmcfadyenscuba.info/articles/earprob.htm]
#*:We arrive there five minutes later and I sit up very '''rockily'''. I have to get off this boat, I am getting sick.
#* [http://www.talkcinema.com/reviews/cannes9907.html]
#*:French actress Sophie Marceau entered '''rockily''' on heels
#* [http://www.abovetopsecret.com/forum/thread95347/pg1]
#*:The hand-held camera '''rockily''' zooms in on one of the surgeons who is holding a circular surgical saw covered in dried blood.

[[vi:rockily]]