==English==
===Verb===
'''roll''' (rolls, rolled, rolling)
# To cause to revolve by turning over and over; to move by turning on an axis; to impel forward by causing to turn over and over on a supporting surface; as, to roll a wheel, a ball, or a barrel.
# To wrap round on itself; to form into a spherical or cylindrical body by causing to turn over and over; as, to roll a sheet of paper; to roll parchment; to roll clay or putty into a ball.
# To bind or involve by winding, as in a bandage; to inwrap; -- often with up; as, to roll up a parcel.
# To drive or impel forward with an easy motion, as of rolling; as, a river rolls its waters to the ocean.
# To utter copiously, esp. with sounding words; to utter with a deep sound; -- often with forth, or out; as, to roll forth some one's praises; to roll out sentences.
# To press or level with a roller; to spread or form with a roll, roller, or rollers; as, to roll a field; to roll paste; to roll steel rails, etc.
# To move, or cause to be moved, upon, or by means of, rollers or small wheels.
# To beat with rapid, continuous strokes, as a drum; to sound a roll upon.
# (Geom.) To apply (one line or surface) to another without slipping; to bring all the parts of (one line or surface) into successive contact with another, in suck manner that at every instant the parts that have been in contact are equal.
# To turn over in one's mind; to revolve.
===Noun===
'''roll''' (''plural'' rolls)
# The act of rolling, or state of being rolled; as, the roll of a ball; the roll of waves.
# That which rolls; a roller. Specifically:
#:(a) A heavy cylinder used to break clods. 
#:(b) One of a set of revolving cylinders, or rollers, between which metal is pressed, formed, or smoothed, as in a rolling mill; as, to pass rails through the rolls.
# That which is rolled up; as, a roll of fat, of wool, paper, cloth, etc. Specifically:
#:(a) A document written on a piece of parchment, paper, or other materials which may be rolled up; a scroll.
#:(b) Hence, an official or public document; a register; a record; also, a catalogue; a list.
#:(c) A quantity of cloth wound into a cylindrical form; as, a roll of carpeting; a roll of ribbon. 
#:(d) A cylindrical twist of tobacco.
# A kind of shortened raised biscuit or bread, often rolled or doubled upon itself.
# (Naut.) The oscillating movement of a vessel from side to side, in sea way, as distinguished from the alternate rise and fall of bow and stern called pitching.
# A heavy, reverberatory sound; as, the roll of cannon, or of thunder.
# The uniform beating of a drum with strokes so rapid as scarcely to be distinguished by the ear.
# Part; office; duty; rôle. [Obs.]
# A measure of parchments, containing five dozen.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1882''': Parchement is sold by the dozen, and by the roll of five dozens. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 4, p. 594.