{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology 1===
Middle English [[ruke]]

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌk|-ʌk]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}
# A rapidly moving [[throng]] or [[mob]]; a [[pack]] of people actively engaged in something.
#:'''1873''' ''Dandolo was constantly in the ditch, sometimes lying with his side against the bank, and had now been so hustled and driven that, had he been on the other side, he would have had no breath left to carry his rider, even in the '''ruck''' of the hunt.'' — Anthony Trollope, Phineas Redux, [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=633717879&tag=Trollope,+Anthony:+Phineas+Redux,+1873&query=ruck&id=TroRedu Chapter 16.]
#(''Rugby'') the situation formed when a [[runner]] is brought to [[ground]] and one or more members of each side are enagaged above the [[ball]], trying to win [[possession]] of it; a [[loose scrum]].
# A [[fight]], a [[scuffle]].
#:'''1914'''''At last, out of the ruck rose Verman, disfigured and maniacal. With a wild eye he looked about him for his trusty rake; but Penrod, in horror, had long since thrown the rake out into the yard. Naturally, it had not seemed necessary to remove the lawn-mower. The frantic eye of Verman fell upon the lawnmower, and instantly he leaped to its handle. Shrilling a wordless war-cry, he charged, propelling the whirling, deafening knives straight upon the prone legs of Rupe Collins.'' Booth Tarkington, ''Penrod'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=611097210&tag=Tarkington,+Booth,+1869-1946:+Penrod,+1914&query=ruck&id=TarPenr Chapter 23.]
# The commonplace; the lower social classes.
#:'''1874''' ''He is well born." "His being higher in learning and birth than the '''ruck o' soldiers''' is anything but a proof of his worth. It shows his course to be down'ard." '' — Thomas Hardy, ''[http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=342267433&tag=Hardy,+Thomas:+Far+from+the+Madding+Crowd,+1874&query=ruck&id=HarMadd Far from the Madding Crowd.]''

===Etymology 2===
Middle English, from Old Norse

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}
#'''transitive''' To crease or fold. 
#'''intransitive''' To become folded.
#:'''1917''' ''"Will you come over now and try on your dress?" Ally asked, looking at her with wistful admiration. "I want to be sure the sleeves don't '''ruck''' up the same as they did yesterday."'' — Edith Wharton, ''Summer'', [http://etext.virginia.edu/etcbin/ot2www-pubeng?specfile=/texts/english/modeng/publicsearch/modengpub.o2w&act=surround&offset=727838576&tag=Wharton,+Edith,+1862-1937:+Summer;+a+novel,+1917&query=ruck&id=WhaSumm Chapter 12.]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
#A crease, a wrinkle, a pucker, as on fabric.

====Usage note on Etymology 2====
All senses would seem to have fallen out of usage and might be labelled ''obsolete''.

[[es:ruck]]
[[vi:ruck]]

[[Category:Rugby]]