A '''rule of thumb''' is an easily learned and easily applied procedure for approximately calculating or recalling some value, or for making some determination. Compare this to [[heuristic]], a similar concept used in [[mathematics|mathematical discourse]],  or in [[computer science]], particularly in [[algorithm]] design. See also [[mnemonic]].

The term "'''rule of thumb'''" or similar exists in many languages and cultures. Its likely origin is that the thumb is often used for rough measurement by carpenters, seamstresses, artists and many others.  In fact, the measurement of an [[inch]] is believed to have been derived from the distance between the tip of the thumb and the first joint. Rules of thumb such as the [[right hand rule]] in [[electrodynamics]] are also used as [[mnemonic]] devices. This usage, of course, is of more recent vintage. 

==Theories about origins of term==
It is often claimed that the term originally referred to the maximum size of a stick with which it was permissible for a man to [[Domestic violence|beat his wife]]. as seen in the following quote from [[Del Martin]] of the [[National Organization for Women]]:
 
:"In America, early settlers held European attitudes towards women.  Our law, based upon the old English common-law doctrines, explicitly permitted wife-beating for correctional purposes.  However, certain restrictions did exist and the general trend in the young states was toward declaring wife-beating illegal.  For instance, the common-law doctrine had been modified to allow the husband 'the right to whip his wife provided that he used a [[switch (rod)|switch]] no bigger than his thumb' -- a rule of thumb, so to speak"
:::&mdash;Del Martin, ''Battered Wives'' Volcano Press, 1976, page 31.
 
Other examples:

:"Until the 19th Century, there was a charming little rule of thumb that applied to family life. A man was allowed to beat his wife as long as the stick he used was no wider than a thumb."
:::&mdash;[[Ellen Goodman]], ''[[Washington Post]]'', [[April 19]], [[1983]].
 
:"In state courts across the country, wife beating was legal until 1890. There was a ''rule of thumb'', by which courts had stated a man might beat his wife with a switch no thicker than his thumb."
:::&mdash;''[[Chicago Tribune]]'', [[March 18]], [[1990]].

This explanation for the origin of the term is also featured in the opening of the [[1999]] movie [[The Boondock Saints]]. 

According to the Discovery Science Channel's TV show, "Discoveries This Week" on [[19 September]] [[2005]], the term comes from brewery industry before the advent of thermometers.  The man in charge of aiding yeast would stick his thumb into the vat to check the temperature.  This is doubtful, however, as beer is easily contaminated and ruined by casual contact with unsterilized equipment, much less a thumb.

==Examples==
[[Rule of 70]] - a rule of thumb for [[exponential growth]] at a constant rate

==See also==
*[[Heuristic argument]]
*[[Tooth Fairy Rule]]



[[Category:Rules of thumb]]
[[Category:English phrases]]

[[da:Tommelfingerregel]]
[[de:Faustregel]]
[[nl:Vuistregel]]
[[sv:Tumregel]]