{{see|Rum}}
==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌm|-ʌm]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# {{uncountable}} A [[distilled]] [[spirit]] derived from fermented [[cane]] [[sugar]] and [[molasses]].
#: “The Royal Navy used to issue a '''rum''' ration to sailors.”
# {{countable}} A serving of rum.
#: “Jake tossed down three '''rums'''.”
# {{countable}} A kind or brand of rum.
#: “Bundaburg is one of my favourite '''rums'''.”

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[蘭姆酒]], [[兰姆酒]]
*Danish: [[rom]] {{c}}
*Finnish: [[rommi]]
*French: [[rhum]] {{m}}
*German: [[Rum]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[ρούμι]] {{n}}
*Japanese: [[ラム酒]]
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[럼]]
*[[Neapolitan]]: [[rùmma]]
*Russian: [[ром]] {{m}} (rom)
*Spanish: [[ron]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[rom]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}


===Adjective===
{{en-adj|rumm|er}}

# {{cattag|British}} [[strange|Strange]], [[peculiar]].

====Quotations====

*'''1895:''' Thomas Hardy, ''Jude the Obscure''
*:"Well it is the rummest thing I ever heard of—marrying an old husband again, and so much new blood in the world!"
*'''1951:''' C. S. Lewis, ''Prince Caspian''
*:"Can't you see him?"
*:"Well, I almost thought I did—for a moment. It's such a rum light."
*'''1976:''' James Herriot, ''All Things Wise and Wonderful''
*:"She's as 'appy as Larry, but she'll neither move nor eat.  It's a rum 'un, isn't it?" It was very rum indeed.

===External links===
*[[w:rum|Wikipedia article on rum]]

[[Category:Alcoholic beverages]]

----

==Danish==

===Noun===
'''rum''' {{n}}

# [[room]]; part of a building.

----

==Old English==

===Etymology===
From Germanic ''*rūma-'' (noun and adjective).  Cognate with Old Saxon '''rūm''' {{n}}, [[rumo|rūmo]] ''adj'' (Dutch [[ruim]] {{n}} & ''adj''), Old High German '''rūm''' {{n}}, [[rumi|rūmi]] ''adj'' (German [[Raum]] {{n}}), Old Norse '''rūm''' {{n}}, [[rúmr]] ''adj'' (Swedish '''rum''' {{n}}), Gothic [[𐍂𐌿𐌼]] {{n}}, [[𐍂𐌿𐌼𐍃]] ''adj''.

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /ru:m/

===Noun===
'''rūm''' {{m}}

# [[space]]; a [[room]]
# a space of time, an [[interval]]; an [[opportunity]]
#: '''''Rum''' wæs to nimanne londbuendum on ðam laðestan...'': it was an opportunity for the land-dwellers to seize from the most hated ones... (''Judith'')

===Adjective===
'''rūm'''

# [[spacious]], [[roomy]], [[open]]
#: ''Ðis '''rume''' land'': the wide world  (Cædmon’s ''Metrical Paraphrase'')
# [[free]], [[unrestricted]]
# [[long]], [[extended]] (of time)

[[Category:Old English nouns]]
[[Category:Old English adjectives]]

----

==Swedish==

===Noun===
{{sv-noun-n-zero|stem=rumm}}
'''rum''' {{n}}

# [[room]]; part of a building.
#: ''Jag vill ha en lägenhet med två '''rum''''' = I want a flat with two rooms
# {{italbrac|mathematics}} [[space]]
#: ''Linjärt '''rum''''' = Linear space

[[fr:rum]]
[[ko:rum]]
[[hy:rum]]
[[io:rum]]
[[ku:rum]]
[[pl:rum]]
[[pt:rum]]
[[sl:rum]]
[[fi:rum]]
[[sv:rum]]
[[vi:rum]]