==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{SAMPA|/r\Vn/}}
*{{IPA|/ɹʌn/}}
*{{audio|en-us-run.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
'''run'''  (''no'' {{compar}} ''or'' {{superl}})

# In a [[liquid]] state; [[melted]]; [[molten]].
#:''Put some '''run''' butter on the vegetables.''
# [[exhaust|Exhausted]]; [[deplete]]d (especially with "down" or "out".)

===Noun===
{{en-noun|run|runs}}

# The act of running.
#:''I just got back from my '''run'''.''
# The [[route]] taken while running.
#:''Which '''run''' did you do today?''
# A flow of [[liquid]]; a [[leak]].
#:''The constant '''run''' of water from the faucet annoys me.''
# {{US}} A small [[creek]] or part thereof.
# The [[amount]] of something made.
#:''The book’s initial press '''run''' will be 5,000 copies.''
#:''The '''run''' of the show lasted two weeks, and we sold out every night.''
# A [[pace]] faster than a [[walk]].
#:''He broke into a '''run'''.''
# (''of horses''): A fast [[gallop]].
# An [[interval]] of [[distance]] or time, a period marked by a continuing trend.
#:''He went to Las Vegas and spent all his money over a three-day '''run'''.''
#:''I’m having a '''run''' of bad luck.''
# A series of tries in a game that were successful.
# A regular [[trip]] or [[route]].
#:''The bus on the Cherry Street '''run''' is always crowded.''
# An [[enclosure]] for an animal; a [[track]] or [[path]] along which something can travel.
#:''He set up a rabbit '''run'''.''
# An [[errand]] or the [[journey]] associated with an errand.
#:''I need to make a '''run''' to the store.''
# A pleasure trip.
# {{sports}} A single trip down a hill, as in [[skiing]] and [[bobsledding]].
# {{sports}} A point [[score]]d in [[baseball]] and [[cricket]].
# {{music}} A [[rapid]] [[passage]] in [[music]], especially along a [[scale]].
# (''computers'') To begin, process or execute computer software or program or instruction.
#:''Don't '''run''' that software unless you have permission.''
# A sequence of [[cards]] in a suit in a card game.
# A sudden large [[demand]] for something.
#:''There was a '''run''' on Christmas presents.''
# Unrestricted use of an area.
#:''He can have the '''run''' of the house.''
# A line of [[knit]] [[stitches]] that has [[unravelled]].
#:''I have a '''run''' in my stocking.''
# The top of a [[step]] on a [[staircase]], also called a [[tread]], as opposed to the [[rise]].

===Translations===
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Telugu: [[పరుగు]] (parugu)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
{{en-verb2|'''to run'''|'''[[runs]]'''|'''[[ran]]'''|'''[[run]]'''|'''[[running]]'''}}

# {{intransitive}}: To continue.
#:''The speech '''runs''' as follows:...''
# {{intransitive}}: To be communicated.
#:''There's a strange story '''running''' around the neighborhood.''
# {{intransitive}}: To display something.
#:''The story will '''run''' on the 6-o’clock news.''
# {{intransitive}}: To release mucus.
#:''Your nose is '''running'''.''
# {{intransitive}}: To be oriented in a particular direction.
#:''The grain of the wood '''runs''' to the right on this table.''
# {{intransitive}}: To repeatedly occur.
#:''Blue eyes '''run''' in his family.''
# {{intransitive}}: To participate in a race.
#:''The horse will '''run''' the Preakness next year.''
# {{intransitive}}: To follow a route of travel.
#:''The bus '''runs''' on Elm Street.''
#:''The leash [[run]]s along a wire.''
# {{intransitive}}: To be a candidate for political office.
#:''I have decided to '''run''' for governor of California.''
# {{intransitive}}, (''fish''): To migrate for spawning.
# {{intransitive}}: To continue for a period of time, continue to be valid.
#:''The sale will '''run''' for ten days.''
#:''The contract '''runs''' through 2008.''
# {{transitive}}: To [[move]] forward quickly upon two feet by alternately making a short jump off of either foot, compare: [[walk]].
#:'''''Run''', Sarah, '''Run!'''''
# {{transitive}}: To go at a fast pace, to move [[quickly]].
#:''The horse '''ran''' the length of the track.''
#:''I have been '''running''' all over the building looking for him.''
#:''Sorry, I've got to '''run'''; my house is on fire.''
# {{transitive}}: To be in [[charge]] of.
#:''She [[run]]s the fundraising.''
# {{transitive}}: To [[break]] or [[breach]].
#:''He '''ran''' through the roadblock.''
# {{transitive}}, {{football}} To carry a football down the field.
#:''He '''ran''' the ball ninety yards for a touchdown.''
# {{transitive}}: To cast or to mold molten metal.
# {{transitive}}: To flow or to pour.
#:''Why is the hose still '''running'''?''
# {{transitive}}: To go for, to come to.
#:''When he's broke, he '''runs''' to me for money.''
# {{transitive}}: To go in a range.
#:''It '''ran''' in quality from excellent to substandard.''
# {{transitive}}: To continue for an amount.
#:''The book '''runs''' 655 pages.''
# {{transitive}}: To unravel (of stitches.)
#:''My stocking is '''running'''.''
# {{transitive}}: To tend towards.
#:''His taste in music '''runs''' to the classical.''
# {{transitive}}: To leak or spread in an undesirable fashion (generally used of [[dye]].)
#:''He discovered during washing that the red rug '''ran''' on his white sheet, staining it pink.''
# {{transitive}}: To operate, to initiate, to perform an action.
#:''It's full, you can '''run''' the dishwasher now.''
#:''I '''ran''' the program once it was installed.''
#:''I will '''run''' a sample.''
# {{transitive}}: To enter into a race.
#:''He '''ran''' his best horse in the Derby.''
# {{transitive}}: To perform an errand.
#:''I have to '''run''' to the store.''
# {{transitive}}: To route an object a particular way.
# {{transitive}}: To take off course.
#:''He was '''run''' off the road by a bicycle.''
# {{transitive}}: To transport persons or cargo.
#:''Could you '''run''' me over to the store?''
# How fast an amount (of [[liquid]]) in a flow will proceed.
#:''The flow in this hydrant will '''run''' 50 psi.''
#:''The ice will '''run''' downhill at 3 miles per hour.''

===Translations===
'''to run (move quickly)'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[redek]]
*Bulgarian: [[бягам]] (bjagam), [[тичам]] {tičam}
*Dutch: [[rennen]], [[lopen]]
*Esperanto: [[kuri]]
*Estonian: [[jooksma]]
*Finnish: [[juosta]]
*French: [[courir]]
*German: [[rennen]], [[laufen]]
*Greek: [[τρέχω]] (trékho)
*Hebrew: [[לרוץ]] (leráts)
*Hungarian: [[fut]]
*[[Ido]]: [[kurar]], [[hastar]]
*Indonesian: [[lari]], [[lari|berlari]], [[jalan|menjalankan]]
*Irish: [[rith]]
*Italian: [[correre]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[走る]] ([[はしる]], hashiru), [[走らせる]] ([[はしらせる]], hashiraseru)
*Kurdish:
:Kurmancî: [[bezîn]], [[revîn]], [[bazdan]]
:Kurdish: (Soranî): [[rakirdin]]
*Latin: currere
*Norwegian: [[løpe]], [[springe]]
*Portuguese: [[correr]]
*Romanian: [[a alerga]], a fugii
*Russian: [[бегать]] (bégat’)
*Slovene: [[teči]]
*Spanish: [[correr]]
*Swahili: [[kukimbia]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[tumakbo]]
*Telugu: [[పరుగెత్తు]] (parugettu)
{{bottom}}

'''run (move quickly)''' ''(past participle)''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[redet]]
*Dutch: [[gerend]], [[gelopen]]
*German: [[gerannt]], [[gelaufen]]
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[rite#Irish|rite]]
*Spanish: [[corrido]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===

{{top4}}
*[[Cannonball run]]
*[[chicken run]]
*[[dry run]]
*[[hit and run]]
*[[home run]]
*[[front runner]]
*[[on the run]]
{{mid4}}
*[[overrun]]
*[[rat run]]
*[[run around]]
*[[run away]], [[runaway]]
*[[run for the hills]]
*[[run in]]
*[[runner]]
{{mid4}}
*[[run of the mill]], [[run-of-the-mill]]
*[[run on]]
*[[run out]]
*[[run over]]
*[[run ragged]]
*[[run rate]]
{{mid4}}
*[[runtime]], [[run time]]
*[[run to]]
*[[run up]]
*[[runway]]
*[[run with]]
*[[the runs]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[gallop]]
*[[move]]
*[[walk]]

{{rank|daughter|makes|laws|539|run|position|copy|opened}}


----

==Old English==
===Etymology===
From Germanic ''*rūnō''.  Cognate with Old Saxon [[runa|rūna]], Old High German [[runa|rūna]] (German [[rune]]), Old Norse ''rūn''.

===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /ru:n/

===Noun===
'''rūn''' ''f''
# a [[mystery]] or [[secret]]
#:''Rune healdan'': to keep one’s counsel.
# [[advice]], [[counsel]]
# [[writing]]; a [[rune]]

[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:Baseball]]
[[Category:Old English nouns]]

[[de:run]]
[[es:run]]
[[fr:run]]
[[ga:run]]
[[gl:run]]
[[io:run]]
[[it:run]]
[[hu:run]]
[[ja:run]]
[[pt:run]]
[[ru:run]]
[[fi:run]]
[[ta:run]]
[[uk:run]]
[[zh:run]]