==English==
===Etymology 1===
Old English ''[[rysc]]'

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌʃ|-ʌʃ]]

====Noun====
'''rush''' (''plural'' '''rushes''')

#Any of several [[stiff]] [[aquatic]] or [[marsh]] plants of the [[genus]] ''Juncus'' having [[hollow]] or [[pithy]] stems and small flowers.
#The stem of such plants used in making [[basket]]s, [[mat]]s, the [[seat]]s of [[chair]]s, etc.

=====Translations=====
'''plant'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*French: [[jonc]] ''m''
*German: [[Binse]] ''f''
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''stem of that plant'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
Anglo-French ''[[russher]]'', ''[[russer]]'', French ''[[ruser]]''. Confer Middle High German ''[[ruschen]]'', German ''[[rauschen]]'', Dutch ''[[ruischen]]''.

====Adjective====
'''rush''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]''; ''used only before a noun'')

#[[Perform]]ed with, or [[requiring]] [[urgency]] or great haste, or done under [[pressure]].
#:''rush job''

====Noun====
'''rush''' (''plural'' '''rushes''')

#A [[sudden]] [[forward]] [[motion]].
#A [[surge]].
#General [[haste]].
#(''military'') A sudden [[attack]]; an [[onslaught]].
#A [[rapid]], noisy [[flow]].
#(''[[football]]'') the [[act]] of running at another [[player]] to [[block]] or [[disrupt]] play.<!--what kind of football?  Soccer or American football-->
#A [[pleasurable]] [[sensation]] [[experience]]d after [[use]] of a [[stimulant]], etc.
#A sudden, [[brief]] [[exhilaration]].
#(''US'') A regulated period of recruitment in [[fraternity|fraternities]] and [[sorority|sororities]].

=====Translations=====
'''sudden forward motion'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[ryntäys]], [[syöksy]]
*German: [[Vorwärtsstürmen]] ''m''
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''surge'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[syöksy]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''haste'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[kiire]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''onslaught'''
''See'' '''[[onslaught]]'''

'''rapid, noisy flow'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''act of running at another player'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''pleasurable sensation experienced after use of a stimulant'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[Rausch]] ''m''
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''sudden, brief exhilaration'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''regulated period of recruitment in fraternities and sororities'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|rush|es}}

=====Intransitive=====
#To [[hurry]].
#(''military'') To make a [[swift]] or sudden attack.
#To [[flow]] [[rapid]]ly or [[noisy|noisily]].
#(''football'') To [[dribble]] rapidly.

======Translations======
'''hurry'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[kiirehtiä]], [[sännätä]]
*German: [[hetzen]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''military: make a sudden attack'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[rynnätä]], [[rynnistää]], [[syöksyä]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''flow rapidly and often noisily'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[kohista]]
*German: [[rauschen]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''football: dribble rapidly'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

=====Transitive=====
{{en-verb|rush|es}}

#To cause (something or someone) to move with unusual haste.
#To cause (someone) to act with unusual haste.
#To perform (something) with great haste.
#:''rush one's dinner''
#(''military'') To attach swiftly and without [[warning]] to.
#To [[transport]] (someone or something) or [[carry]] (someone or something) quickly.
#:''The shuttle rushes passengers from the station to the airport.''
#(''American football'') To [[run]] directly at (another player) in order to block or disrupt play.

'''cause something or someone to move with unusual haste'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[hetzen]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''cause someone to act with unusual haste'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[hetzen]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''perform something with great haste'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[übereilen]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''attack swiftly and without warning to'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*German: [[überfallen]]
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''transport or carry quickly'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

'''American football: run directly at another player'''
{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
{{mid}}
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[adrenalin rush]]
*[[bum's rush]]
*[[rush goalie]]
*[[rush hour]]
*[[rush job]]
*[[sugar rush]]

===Etymology 3===
Abbreviation of '''''r'''emote '''u'''se of '''sh'''ared hardware''.

====Proper noun====
'''RUSH'''
#(''computing'') A [[dialect]] of the [[language]] [[PL/1]].

===See also===
*[[rushes]]
*[[w:Rush|Wikipedia article on various meanings of the word "rush" or "Rush"]]
*[[w:Juncaceae|Wikipedia article on the rush, the plant]]
*[[w:rush_(football)|Wikipedia article on rushing in American football]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[fa:rush]]
[[io:rush]]
[[it:rush]]
[[hu:rush]]
[[ru:rush]]
[[fi:rush]]
[[vi:rush]]