==English==
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈrʌstɪk/}}
*{{audio|en-uk-rustic.ogg|Audio (UK)}}
*{{audio|en-us-rustic.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
'''rustic'''

#[[country]]-styled or [[pastoral]]; [[rural]]
#[[unfinished]] or [[roughly]] finished work
#[[crude]], [[rough]]
#:'''''rustic''' country where the sheep and cattle roamed freely''

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1700s=17??|
1800s=1818 1820}}
*'''late 1700s''' — [[w:Robert Burns|Robert Burns]], ''[[s:Behold, My Love, How Green the Groves|Behold, My Love, How Green the Groves]]''
*:The Princely revel may survey <br/>Our '''rustic''' dance wi' scorn.
*'''1818''' — [[w:Mary Shelley|Mary Shelley]], ''[[s:Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus|Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus]]'' Ch. I
*:With his permission my mother prevailed on her '''rustic''' guardians to yield their charge to her. They were fond of the sweet orphan. Her presence had seemed a blessing to them, but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection.
*'''1820''' — [[w:Washington Irving|Washington Irving]], ''[[s:Rural Life in England|Rural Life in England]] in [[s:The Sketchbook of Geoffrey Crayon|The Sketchbook of Geoffrey Crayon]]''
*:To this mingling of cultivated and '''rustic''' society may also be attributed the rural feeling that runs through British literature.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|rustic|rustics}}

#A person from a [[rural]] area.

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1900s=1906 1927}}
*'''1906''' — [[w:Arthur Conan Doyle|Arthur Conan Doyle]], ''[[s:Sir Nigel|Sir Nigel]]'', Ch IX
*:The King looked at the motionless figure, at the little crowd of hushed expectant '''rustics''' beyond the bridge, and finally at the face of Chandos, which shone with amusement.
*'''1927-29''' — [[w:Mahatma Gandhi|Mahatma Gandhi]], ''[[s:An Autobiography or The Story of my Experiments with Truth|An Autobiography or The Story of my Experiments with Truth]], Part V, The Stain of Indigo''
*:Thus this ignorant, unsophisticated but resolute agriculturist captured me. So early in 1917, we left Calcutta for Champaran, looking just like fellow '''rustics'''.

[[fr:rustic]]
[[io:rustic]]
[[it:rustic]]
[[pl:rustic]]