{{see|resume|resumé}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{F.}} ''[[résumé#French|résumé]]'', past participle of ''[[résumer#French|résumer]]'', to summarize, from {{L.}} ''[[resumere]]'', to take back; compare '''[[resume]]'''

===Alternative spellings===
*[[resume]]
*[[resumé]]

===Pronunciation===
* {{audio|en-us-resumé.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* {{AHD|rĕz'(j)ə-mā}}, {{IPA|/ˈrez(j)əmeɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"rez(j)@meI/}}
* (British): /ˈrɛzjʊˌmeɪ/, /rezyme/, {{SAMPA|"rEzjU%meI}}
* (US): /ˈrɛzʊˌmeɪ/, {{SAMPA|"rE.zU.%meI}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ezjəmeɪ|-ezjəmeɪ]], [[Rhymes:English:-ezəmeɪ|-ezəmeɪ]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A [[summary]] or [[synopsis]].
# {{italbrac|North America|Australia}} A [[curriculum vitae]]; an [[account]] of one's [[employment]] [[history]] and [[qualification]]s (often for presentation to a [[potential]] future [[employer]] when applying for a job.)

====Usage notes====
In the US, there are three major spellings of this word: ''résumé'', ''resumé'', and ''resume''.  All three are in common usage and all three are occasionally contested.  The usual justification for each is usually as follows:
* ''[[resume]]'' is an acceptable, if not the normal spelling, because modern English does not usually have diacritic marks except when borrowing terms or as an optional spelling to indicate a breach of standard pronunciation rules.  Cf. ''[[cafe]]'', ''[[emigre]]'', and ''[[nee]]'', all of which are commonly spelled with and without accent marks.
* ''[[resumé]]'' follows a practice wherein a final ''e'' is accented to indicate that it is pronounced where it would usually remain silent.  Cf. ''[[touché]]'', ''[[café]]'', and especially ''saké'', where there is no etymological justification for the (optional) accent.  The acute accent over the first ''e'', on the other hand, serves no function in English.
* ''[[résumé]]'' follows a practice of retaining accents in borrowed words.  Cf. ''[[protégé]]'', ''[[émigré]]'', ''[[née]]'', and ''[[élan]]''.

Certain other French words with two accented ''e''s have the same usage conflict, though the relative infrequency of the words in common usage causes the conflict to be less pronounced.  Also, Microsoft's spell-checking tools incorrectly prescribe against ''resumé'', suggesting ''résumé'' instead, which, given its tremendous predominance amongst people that handle résumés will affect the perception of the correctness of the two spellings of the term.

====Translations====
'''summary'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Zusammenfassung]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''CV'''
{{top}}
*German:  [[Lebenslauf]] ''m'' 
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Dictionary notes===
[[Category:Dictionary notes]]
*'''American Heritage Dictionary''' (via answers.com) lists all 3 spelling alternatives in the order: ''resumé'', ''resume'', ''résumé''.
*'''Collins Word Exchange''' lists only ''résumé''.
*'''Merriam-Webster Online''' lists all 3 spelling alternatives in the order: ''résumé'', ''resume'', ''resumé''.
*'''MSN Encarta Dictionary''' lists all 3 spelling alternatives in the order: ''résumé'', ''resumé'', ''resume''.
*'''Diccionario Oxford Pocket Edición Latinoamericana''' lists only ''resumé''.
*'''Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary''' (2000) lists only ''resumé''.
*'''Oxford Pocket Chinese Dictionary, English-Chinese''' (1999) lists only ''résumé''.
*'''Genius G3 English-Japanese Dictionary''', 3rd edition lists all 3 spelling alternatives in the order: ''résumé'', ''resumé'', ''resume''.

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/ʀezyme/}}

===Noun===
{{fr-noun-reg|m}}

#a [[summary]]

===Verb form===
'''résumé'''

# {{past participle of|résumer}}

[[Category:English words spelled with diacritics or ligatures|Resume]]

[[hu:résumé]]
[[vi:résumé]]