==Korean==
===Verb===
'''이기다'''  (''igida'') 
# To [[win]], [[beat]], [[defeat]], [[gain]] (''[[war]], [[battle]], [[fight]], [[game]], [[contest]], [[competition]]'') 
#* 왔다, 보았다, 이겼다. (''wassda, boassda, igyeossda.'') veni, vidi, vici. 
# To [[overcome]], [[surmount]], [[suppress]] (''[[crisis]], [[hardship]], [[temptation]], etc.'')
# To [[knead]] (''[[dough]])

====Alternative spellings====
*[[니긔다]] (''niguida'') (''obsolete'') To [[win]]; [[overcome]], cf. Greek [[νίκη]] ('''''nikē''', phonetic: niki'') "[[victory]]"
*[[니기다]] (''nigida'') (''obsolete'') To '''[[knead]]'''

====Synonyms====
*[[쳐부수다]] (''chyeobusuda'') To [[defeat]], [[destroy]]
*[[물리치다]] (''mullichida'') To [[defeat]], [[fight back]]
*[[억누르다]] (''eognureuda, eok-'') To [[overcome]], [[surmount]], [[suppress]] 
*[[주무르다]] (''jumureuda'') To [[massage]], [[knead]], [[finger]], [[control]]
** 그는 아무나 '''떡 주무르듯''' 다룬다. (''geu-neun amuna tteog jumureudeus darunda.'') He treats anyone '''as if kneading dough'''.
*[[승리]]하다  ([[勝利]]-, ''seungri-hada'') To [[win]], [[triumph]]

====Antonyms====
*[[지다]] (''jida'') To [[lose]] (''[[war]], [[battle]], [[fight]], [[game]], [[contest]], [[competition]]'') 
*[[패배]]하다 ([[敗北]]-, ''paebae-hada'')

====Derived terms====
*이겨[[내다]] (''igyeo-naeda'') To [[overcome]], [[surmount]] (''[[crisis]], [[hardship]], [[temptation]]'')

====Related terms====
*[[싸우다]] (''ssauda'') (''verb'')
*[[싸움]] (''ssaum'') [[war]], [[battle]], [[fight]], [[struggle]], [[quarrel]], [[dispute]]
*[[다투다]] (''datuda'') (''verb'')
*[[다툼]] (''datum'') [[strife]], [[contest]], [[competition]]
*[[어렵다]] ('eoryeobda, eoryeopda'') (''adjective'') 
*[[어려움]] (''eoryeoum'') [[hardship]], [[difficulty]], [[obstacle]]
*[[둑]] (''dug, duk'') [[dike]] 
{{trans-top|cf. some German cognates}}   
*'''[[Deich]]''' "[[dike]]" 
*'''[[Dicke]]''' "[[thick]]ness" 
*'''[[Teich]]''' "[[pond]]" 
*'''[[Teig]]''' "[[dough]]" cf. Greek '''teichos''' "[[wall]]" 
*'''[[Tugend]]''' "[[virtue]]" 
*'''[[taugen]]''' "[[useful]]" 
{{trans-bottom}}
*[[떡]] (''tteog, tteok'') [[dough]] (''Korean specialty cake'')
*[[반죽]] (''banjug, -juk'') [[dough]] 
{{trans-top|Sino-Korean}}
*[[격투]] (''gyeogtu, gyeok-'') [[fight]], [[grapple]]
*[[전투]] (''jeontu'') [[battle]], [[combat]]
*[[전쟁]] (''jeonjaeng'') [[war]], [[warfare]]
*[[경쟁]] (''gyeongjaeng'') [[competition]], [[contest]]
*[[경기]] (''gyeonggi'') [[game]], [[contest]]
*[[시합]] (''sihab, -hap'') [[game]], [[contest]], [[match]]
{{trans-bottom}}

====See also====
*[[비기다]] (''bigida'') To [[match]], [[tie]], [[equalize]] (''the [[score]] in a [[game]] or [[contest]]'') 
*[[비키다]] (''bikida'') To [[remove]], [[relocate]], [[displace]], [[withdraw]], [[retire]], [[avoid]] cf. Latin '''[[vici]]''' from [[vincere]] "[[win]], [[defeat]]"
** 저리 비켜! (''jeori bikyeo!'') Go away over there! Get out of here!

====Notes====

[[Category:Korean verbs]]
[[ko:이기다]]