==English==

===Etymology===
Via French from Latin ''[[quartus]]''

===Noun===
'''quarter''' (''plural:'' '''[[quarters]]''')
# Any one of [[four]] equal parts into which something has been divided.
# ''(United States and Canada):'' A coin worth 25 cents.
# A period of three consecutive months.
# A section or area (of a town, etc.).
# An old English measure of corn, containing 8 bushels.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''1882''': One of these is 1 Hen. V, cap. 10, defining the quarter of corn to be eight struck bushels, and putting fines on purveyors who take more. &mdash; James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 4, p. 204.
# Mercy or pity shown to a defeated opponent (e.g., "We will give no quarter.")

====Synonyms====
*(''one of four equal parts''): [[fourth]], [[fourth part]]
*(''period of three consecutive months''): [[trimester]]
*(''section of a town''): [[borough]], [[district]], [[region]]

====Translations====

'''one of four equal parts'''
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[çerek]]
*Catalan: [[quart]]
*Croatian: [[četvrt]]
*Czech: [[čtvrt]]
*Danish:[[kvart]]
*Dutch: [[kwart]]
*Esperanto: [[kvarono]]
*Finnish: [[neljännes]], [[neljäsosa]]
*French: [[quart]] {{m}}
*German: [[Viertel]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[negyed]]
*Icelandic: [[fjórðungur]]
*Indonesian: [[seperempat]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[quarto]], [[quarte parte]]
*Italian: [[quarto]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[４分の１]] ([[よんぶんのいち]], yon-bun-no-ichi)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[چارک]]}} (charak)
*Portuguese: [[quarto]] {{m}}, [[quarta parte]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[sfert]]
*Russian: [[четверть]] (četvért’) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[cuarto]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[fjärdedel]] {{c}}, [[kvart]] {{c}}, [[kvarts]] {{c}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[పావు భాగం]] (paavu bhaagaM), [[నాలుగో వంతు]] (naalugO vaMtu)
{{bottom}}

'''coin worth 25 cents'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kwartje]]
*French: [[pièce]] de [[vingt-cinq]] [[cent]]s {{f}}
*Italian: [[moneta]] di [[venticinque]] [[centesimi]]
{{mid}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[بیست و پنج سنتی]]}} (bistopanj senti)
*Spanish: [[cora]] {{f}} {{italbrac|El Salvador}}, [[cuarto]] {{italbrac|Panama}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[పావలా]] (paavalaa) (Quarter of Indian Rupee)
{{bottom}}

'''period of three months'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[kvatal]]
*Dutch: [[kwartaal]], [[trimester]]
*Finnish: [[neljännesvuosi]]
*French: [[trimestre#French|trimestre]] {{m}}
*German: [[Quartal]] {{n}}
*Icelandic: [[fjórðungur]]
*Indonesian: [[kuartal]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[trimestre#Interlingua|trimestre]]
*Japanese: [[４半期]] / [[四半期]] ([[しはんき]], shihanki)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[فصل]]}} (fasl)
*Portuguese: [[trimestre#Portuguese|trimestre]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[квартал]] {{m}} (kvartal)
*Spanish: [[trimestre#Spanish|trimestre]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[kvartal]] {{n}}
*Telugu: [[త్రైమాసికం]] (traimaasikaM)
{{bottom}}

'''section of a town'''
{{top}}
*French: [[quartier]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[محله]]}} (mahalle)
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}
# To divide into quarters.
# To provide housing for military personnel or other equipment.
#: '''''Quarter''' the horses in the third stable.''

===Related terms===
*[[quart]]
*[[quarterly]]
*[[quarters]]
*[[quarter past]]
*[[quarter to]]

[[fr:quarter]]
[[io:quarter]]
[[hu:quarter]]
[[fi:quarter]]
[[ta:quarter]]
[[zh:quarter]]