==English==

===Usage notes===
The use of this word to mean "homosexual" was formerly, and is often still, considered pejorative.  However, in the way that all language is dynamic and pliable, the word is also sometimes now used (primarily as adjective) as a neutral or even positive descriptive term, including by some (primarily younger) homosexuals. In its pejorative use, it is applied almost solely to males. In its modern neutral use, it can be applied to all genders.

Some [[GLBT]] youth now use the term as an "all-inclusive" term for the GLBTIQ (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgendered, Intersex, Queer) etc. community.

'Queer' is also used as a positive term for people who reject mainstream-gay values and culture.  People who identify with this version of queer distance themselves from the commercialisation and (relatively) conformist values of the gay mainstream and embrace fluid and unconstrained definitions of sexuality and gender.  There is some common ground between this definition of queer and the punk and DIY scenes. See also "[[genderqueer]]".

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# {{cattag|slang}} A homosexual, one who appears homosexual, or who has homosexual qualities.
# {{cattag|slang}} A member of the homosexual/bisexual/transgendered/intersex/questioning community.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[heñvelreviad]] ''m'' (neutral), [[paotretaer]] ''m'' (inoffensive), [[pich kaoc'h]] ''m'' (highly offensive)
*Bulgarian: [[хомосексуалист]] ''m'', [[гей]] ''m'', [[педал]] ''m''  (highly offensive)
*Dutch: [[homoseksueel]] ''m'', [[homo]] ''m''
*French: [[gay]] ''m'' (inoffensive), [[pédé]] ''m'' (highly offensive)
{{mid}}
*German: [[Homosexueller]] ''m'', [[Schwuler]] ''m'', [[Lesbe]] ''f'' (latter two sometimes offensive)
*Hungarian: [[buzi]]
*Italian: [[gay]] ''m'', [[finocchio]] ''m'' (offensive)
*Russian: [[гомосексуалист]], [[педераст]] (neutral), [[гомосек]] (offensive), [[педик]] (offensive), [[пидорас]] (highly offensive)
*Polish: [[homoseksualista]], [[gej]], [[pedał]] (offensive), [[ciota]] (highly offensive).
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-er}}

#(''somewhat old-fashioned'') Weird, odd or different.
#(''somewhat old-fashioned'') Slightly unwell (''mainly in'' '''to feel queer''').
#(''Slang'') Homosexual.
#(''Slang'') Having to do with homosexuality, bisexuality, transgenderism, etc.

====Translations====
''weird, odd, different''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[iskis]]
*Bulgarian: [[странен]] ''m'', [[чудат]] ''m'', [[особен]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[bizar]], [[afwijkend]], [[homoseksueel]] ''m''
*French: [[bizarre]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[seltsam]]
*Hungarian: [[furcsa]]
*Italian: [[strano]], [[curioso]], un po' [[male]]
{{bottom}}

'''Slightly unwell'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[dihet]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[bizar]], [[afwijkend]]
*French: [[mal]] [[fichu]] ('''to feel queer''' se sentir mal fichu)
{{mid}}
*German: [[unwohl]]
*Italian un po' [[male]] ('''to feel queer''' stare un po' male, [[sentirsi]] poco bene)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[trucha]]
{{bottom}}

'''Homosexual'''
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[хомосексуален]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[bizar]], [[afwijkend]], [[homoseksueel]] ''m''
*French: [[gay]] (inoffensive), [[pédé]] (highly offensive)
*German: [[schwul]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[buzi]]
*Italian: [[omosessuale]] (''neutral'')
*Spanish: [[marica]], [[maricón]], [[trucha]], [[julay]], [[soplanucas]], [[muerdealmohadas]] (very offensive), joto ''m'' (offensive)
{{bottom}}

'''Having to do with homosexuality, etc.'''

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|queer||}}

#To render an endeavor or agreement ineffective or null.
#To reevaluate or reinterpret a work with an eye to sexual orientation and/or gender, as by applying queer theory.

====Translations====

[[bg:queer]]
[[fr:queer]]
[[fi:queer]]
[[zh:queer]]