==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/kwɪk/}}
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪk|-ɪk]]

===Etymology===
Old English [[cwic]] ‘alive’, from Germanic ''*kwikwa-'', from Indo-European ''*gʷih₃u̯os'' ‘alive’, from ''*gʷei-'' ‘to live’. Cognate with Dutch [[kwik]], German [[keck]], Swedish [[kvick]]; and (''from Indo-European'') with Greek [[βίος]], Latin [[vivus]], Lithuanian [[gývas]], Latvian [[dzivs]], Russian [[живой]], Irish [[biathaim]] ‘nourish’.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|er}}

# Moving with [[speed]], [[rapidity]] or [[swiftness]], or capable of doing so; [[rapid]]; [[fast]].
#: ''I ran to the station – but I wasn't '''quick''' enough.''
#: ''He's a '''quick''' runner.''
# Occuring in a short time; happening or done rapidly.
#: ''That was a '''quick''' meal.''
# Lively, fast-thinking, witty, intelligent.
#: ''You have to be very '''quick''' to be able to compete in ad-lib theatrics.''
# Mentally agile, alert, perceptive.
#: ''My father is old but he still has a '''quick''' wit.''
# Of temper: easily aroused to anger; [[quick-tempered]].
# {{archaic}} Alive, living.
#: ''The '''quick''' and the dead.''
# {{archaic}} [[pregnant|Pregnant]], especially at the stage where the foetus's movements can be felt; figuratively, alive with some emotion or feeling.
#: ''She was '''quick''' with child.''
# Of water: flowing.
# Burning, flammable, fiery.

====Synonyms====
*(''moving with speed''): [[fast]], [[speedy]], [[rapid]], [[swift]]

====Antonyms====
*(''moving with speed''): [[slow]]

====Related terms====
*[[quick fix]]
*[[quicken]]
*[[quicklime]]
*[[quicksand]]
*[[quicksilver]]
*[[quick smart]]
*[[quickstep]]
*[[quick-witted]]
*[[wiki-wiki]]
*[[quickly]]
*[[quickie]]

====Translations====
;moving with speed
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[snel]], [[vlug]], [[rap]]
*French: [[rapide]]
*German: [[schnell]], [[geschwind]], [[rasch]]
*Japanese: [[速い]], [[はやい]] (hayai)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[빠르다]] (ppareuda)
*Swedish: [[snabb]], [[rapp]]
{{bottom}}

;occuring in a short time
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[snel]], [[vlug]], [[rap]], [[haastig]]
*Japanese: [[速い]], [[はやい]] (hayai)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[빠르다]] (ppareuda)
*Swedish: [[snabb]], [[kvick]], [[rapp]], [[hastig]]
{{bottom}}

;lively, witty
{{top}}
*Swedish: [[snabb]], [[kvick]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;mentally agile, perceptive
{{top}}
*German: [[schnell von Begriff]]
*Korean: [[빠르다]] (ppareuda)
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[kvick]]
{{bottom}}

;easily aroused to anger
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;alive
{{top}}
*German: [[quicklebendig]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;pregnant
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;flowing
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;burning, fiery
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[бърз]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[nopea]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[rapida]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[rapide]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[svelto]], [[rapido]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[rápido]], [[ligeiro]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[rapid]] {{m}}, [[rapidă]] {{f}}, [[iute]] {{m}}, {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[rapido]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[త్వరగా]] (tvaragaa)

===Adverb===
'''quick'''

# {{colloquial}} [[quickly]]
#: ''get rich quick''
#: ''come here, quick!''

===Noun===
'''quick'''

# [[raw]] or [[sensitive]] [[flesh]], especially that [[underneath]] [[finger]] and [[toe]] [[nail]]s.

====Related terms====
*[[cut to the quick]] Literally, to cut or clip fingernails or toenails short and close to the [[quick]], increasing sensitivity and/or causing pain and/or drawing blood. Figuratively, to [[cut it close]], to leave a narrow margin, to [[leave little room]] for escape, to [[run a risk]], etc.

====Translations====
;sensitive flesh
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[levend vlees]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[ang:quick]]
[[el:quick]]
[[fr:quick]]
[[ko:quick]]
[[io:quick]]
[[it:quick]]
[[hu:quick]]
[[ru:quick]]
[[simple:quick]]
[[fi:quick]]
[[th:quick]]
[[zh:quick]]