==English==
===Forms and variants===
*[[ha'porth]]

===Etymology===
Abbreviated from '''[[halfpennyworth]]'''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈheɪpəθ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"heIp@T/}}

===Noun===
'''ha'p'orth''' (''plural'' '''ha'p'orth''' (particularly when used as a currency multiple, as, eg, ''three-ha'p'orth''); or '''[[ha'p'orths]]''')

#{{UK}} [[halfpennyworth]]  
#*'''1729:''' Jonathan Swift, ''A Pastoral Dialogue, written after the News of the King's Death''
#*:At an old stubborn Root I chanc'd to tug, /When the Dean threw me this Tobacco-plug: /A longer '''ha'p'orth''' never did I see; /This, dearest Sheelah, thou shalt share with me.
#*'''1838:''' [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''[[w:The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby|The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby]]''
#*:'Mighty fine certainly,' said Ralph, with great testiness. 'When I first went to business, ma'am, I took a penny loaf and a '''ha'porth''' of milk for my breakfast as I walked to the city every morning; what do you say to that, ma'am? Breakfast! Bah!'
#*'''c1880:''' William Makepeace Thackeray, ''Roundabout Papers''
#*:You rascal thief! it is not merely three-'''ha'p'orth''' of sooty fruit you rob me of, it is my peace of mind.
#*'''1887:''' C. Stansfeld-Hicks, ''Yachts, Boats and Canoes''
#*:A well-built and handsome boat is worth varnishing, and it would be a pity to "spoil the ship for a '''ha'p'orth''' of tar".
#*'''1997:''' H. W. Fowler, ''Modern English Usage''
#*:''Halfpennyworth'' is best spelt and pronounced '''ha'p'orth'''.
#*'''2000:''' Diary (16 Feb 2000) ''Frank Dobson (or possibly not)'' in ''The Guardian'' read at [http://www.guardian.co.uk/mayor/Story/0,,190773,00.html#article_continue]
#*:Mrs Dobson shouted: "Put on your anorak, Frank, you daft '''ha'p'orth''', the maroon one I fetched you for your 60th, or you'll catch your death."
#*'''2003:''' Anton Chekhov, ''Ward No. 6''
#*:It's very simple.  Not because our people are ignorant and ungrateful, as you always explained it to yourself, but because in all your fads, if you'll excuse the word, there wasn't a '''ha'p'orth''' of love and kindness!