==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# Someone who [[hack]]s, or cuts with rough blows.
# A golfer of indifferent ability.  May be used pejoratively.
# One who is intensely interested in learning and modifying the technical aspects of a system, particularly a computer and its software; one who [[hack]]s; a computer programmer who is largely or completely self-taught.
# {{rfv-sense}} One who feels that all knowledge and information should be free and may be willing to [[hack into]] systems to promote this view.
# A [[cracker]]; one who breaks into computer systems with malicious or criminal intent

====Usage notes====
The sense meaning "one who is intensely interested ...", dating at least to the 1960's, is still current in the computing community.  However, popular usage, including news accounts and television programs, tends overwhelmingly toward the ''cracker'' sense.  Many in the hacker community (in the older sense) feel it is important to promote usage of the older sense, and find the ''cracker'' sense offensive, particularly since computer burglary and vandalism can be and often are done without any deep understanding or significant skill.  One should, however, use the term with care in casual conversation, as it is easily misconstrued.

====Related terms====
*[[hack]]
*[[hack into]]
*[[Kernel hacker]]
*[[Unix hacker]]
*[[white hat hacker]]
*[[black hat hacker]]
*[[ubergeek]]
====Translations====
'''one who modifies computer software'''
*[[w:Finnish language|Finnish]]: [[hakkeri]]
*French: [[bidouilleur]]

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Latvian}}: [[hakeris]], [[urķis]]

===See also===
*[[cracker]]
*[[script kiddie]]
*[[w:hacker|Wikipedia article on ''hacker'']]
*[http://catb.org/~esr/jargon/index.html The Hacker's dictionary]
*[http://catb.org/~esr/jargon/html/H/hacker.html Hacker's dictionary definition of ''hacker'']

[[cs:hacker]]
[[es:hacker]]
[[it:hacker]]