{{see|häck}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æk|-æk]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To cough noisily.
#: ''This cold is awful. I can't stop '''hacking'''.''
# To chop or cut down in a rough manner.
#: ''They '''hacked''' the brush down and made their way through the jungle.''
# To withstand or put up with a difficult situation.
#: ''Can you '''hack''' it out here with no electricity or running water?''
# To play [[hackeysack]].
# To accomplish a difficult programming task.
#: ''He can '''hack''' like no one else and make the program work as expected.''
# To work with on an intimately technical level.
#: ''I'm currently '''hacking''' distributed garbage collection.''
# To make a quick code change to patch a computer program.
#: ''I '''hacked''' in a fix for this bug, but we'll still have to do a real fix later.''.
# To gain unauthorized access to a computer system (e.g. website) by manipulating code. (Widely called "[[crack]]")
# To [[hack into]]; to gain illegal access to a computer network; a "[[crack]]" in computer parlance.

====Related terms====
*[[hack in]]
*[[hack into]]
*[[hack up]]
*[[hacker]]

====Translations====
;To cough noisily (1)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kuchen]]
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[yskiä]], [[köhiä]]
{{bottom}}

;To chop or cut down in a rough manner (2)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[hakken]]
*Finnish: [[hakata#Finnish|hakata]] [[alas]], [[hakata#Finnish|hakata]] [[maa#Finnish|maahan]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[hachar]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[cöpilön]]
{{bottom}}

;To withstand or put up with a difficult situation (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[selvitä]], [[pärjätä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To play hackeysack (4)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To accomplish a difficult programming task (5)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To work with on an intimately technical level (6)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To make a quick code change to patch a computer program (7)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[pätsätä]] (''slang'')
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Finnish}}: [[koodata]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[hakować]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A dry cough.
# {{slang}}: A taxicab driver.
# An ordinary [[horse]], especially an old, tired one.
# A small ball usually made of woven cotton or suede and filled with rice, sand or some other filler, for the use in [[hackeysack]].
# A talented writer-for-hire, paid to put others' thoughts into felicitous language.
# An untalented writer.
#: ''Dason is nothing but a two-bit '''hack'''.''
# An interesting technical achievement, particularly in [[computer programming]].
# An illegal attempt to gain access to a computer network. (Actually called a "[[crack]]" in [[computer]] parlance).
# {{computing}}: A small [[code change]] meant to patch a problem as quickly as possible.
# {{slang}}: Time check (military usage).
# {{curling}} The [[foothold]] device from which the person who throws the rock pushes off for delivery.
# {{slang}}: A prison guard.

====Related terms====
*[[marginal hacks]]

====Translations====
;A dry cough (1)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[kuch]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[yskä]], [[köhä]]
{{bottom}}

;A taxicab driver (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[taksikuski]]
*Spanish: [[taxi]]
{{mid}}
*[[Volapük]]: [[cöpilod]]
{{bottom}}

;An ordinary horse, especially an old, tired one (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[koni#Finnish|koni]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;A small ball usually made of woven cotton or suede and filled with rice, sand or some other filler (4)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[jaca]]
{{bottom}}

;A talented writer-for-hire (5)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[knol]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[taxi]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# (''literature'') Having or requiring little talent.
#: ''He's nothing but the typical '''hack''' writer.''
#: ''I got by on '''hack''' work for years before I finally published my novel.''

===See also===
*[[crack]]
*[[frob]]
*[[tweak]]
*[[kludge]]
*[[hack down]]

[[fr:hack]]
[[it:hack]]
[[zh:hack]]