{{see|haïr}}
{{wikipedia}}
==English==
{{rank|send|peace|glad|570|hair|ran|important|mine}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[her]]'', ''[[heer]]'', ''[[hær]]'', Anglo Saxon ''[[h&#483;r]]''; akin to Old Frisian, ''[[h&#275;r]]'', Dutch and German ''[[haar]]'', Old High German and Icelandic ''[[h&#257;r]]'', Danish ''[[haar]]'', Swedish ''[[hår]]''; compare Lithuanian ''[[kasa]]''

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/heə/}}
*{{SAMPA|/he@/}}
*{{AHD|/hâr/}}

====Homophones====
*[[hare]] 

===Noun===
'''hair (hairs)'''

#A pigmented [[keratin]]aceous growth that forms thin spires and grows out from a [[follicle]] on the human head.
#The collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of humans and animals, and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole body.
#One the above-mentioned [[filaments]], consisting, in vertebrate animals, of a long, tubular part which is free and flexible, and a bulbous root imbedded in the skin.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Then read he me how Sampson lost his '''hairs'''. - [[Chaucer]]
#:*And draweth new delights with hoary '''hairs'''. - [[Spenser]]
#Hair (human or animal) used for various purposes; as, hair for stuffing cushions.
#Whiskers, beard; bristles.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*"Not by the hair of my chinny, chin, chin!" (from the English folktale, "The Three Little Pigs and the Big Bad Wolf")
# {{zoology}} A slender outgrowth from the chitinous cuticle of insects, spiders, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. Such hairs are totally unlike those of vertebrates in structure, composition, and mode of growth.
# {{botany}} An outgrowth of the epidermis, consisting of one or of several cells, whether pointed, hooked, knobbed, or stellated. Internal hairs occur in the flower stalk of the yellow frog lily ([[Nuphar]]).
#A spring device used in a hair-trigger firearm.
# ''(obsolete):'' A haircloth. - [[Chaucer]]
#Any very small distance, or degree; a [[hairbreadth]].

===Usage===
Hair can be a Countable noun and an Uncountable noun

Countable = I found some hairs in my soup

Uncoutable = I'm going to have my hair cut


==== Translations ====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[qime]] ''f'', [[flok]] ''m''
*Basque: [[ile]]
*Bosnian: [[kosa#Bosnian|kosa]] {{f}} ''collective'' (1),  [[dlaka#Bosnian|dlaka]] {{f}} {{s}} (2)
*Breton: [[blev]] ''collective''
*Bulgarian: [[коса]] (kosa) {{f}} (1)
*Catalan: [[cabell]] {{m}} (1), [[pèl]] {{m}} (2)
*Chinese: [[头发]]
*Croatian: [[kosa]] ''f'', [[vlas]] ''m'' (1), [[dlaka]] ''f'' (2)
*Czech: [[vlasy]] ''m, pl'' (1), [[srst]] ''m'' (2)
*Danish: [[hår]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[haar]] {{n}}
*Esperanto: [[haro]]
*Finnish: [[turkki]] (1); [[hius]] (sg.), [[hiukset]] (pl.) (2); [[karva]] (3)
*French: [[cheveu]] {{m}}, [[chevelure]] {{f}} (1), [[poil]] {{m}} (2)
*Frisian: [[hier]]
*German: [[Haar]] {{n}}
*Guaraní: [[tague]]
*Hawaiian: [[hulu]]
*Hebrew: [[שיער]]
*Hindi: [[बाल]]
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[haj]] (1), [[szőr]] (2)
*Indonesian: [[bulu]] (1), [[rambut]] (2)
*Interlingua: [[capillo]] (1), [[pilo]] (2)
*Italian: [[capello]] {{m}} (1), [[pelo]] {{m}} (2)
*Japanese: [[髪の毛]] (かみのけ, kaminoke) (1), [[毛]] (け, ke) (2)
*Korean: [[머리칼]] (meorikal), [[머리카락]] (meorikarak)
*Latin: [[capillus]] {{m}}, [[crinis]]
*Malagasy: [[volo]]
*Maori: [[huru]]
*Marathi: [[केस]]
*Portuguese: [[cabelo]] {{m}} (1), [[pelo]] {{m}} (2)
*Romanian: [[păr]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[волос]] {{m}}, [[волосы]] ''pl'' (1)
*Sindhi: {{SDchar|وارُ}} (Vaaru) {{m}}
*Slovak: [[vlasy]] ''m, pl'' (1), [[srsť]] ''m'' (2)
*Slovene: [[las]] {{m}}, [[lasje]] ''pl''
*Spanish: [[cabello]] {{m}} (1), [[pelo]] {{m}} (2)
*Swahili: [[nywele]]
*Telugu: [[వెంట్రుకలు]] (veMTrukalu), [[జుట్టు]] (juTTu) 
*Tupinambá: [['aba]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived expressions====
<!-- These should be seperated! -->
Hair is often used adjectively or in combination; as, '''hairbrush''' or '''hair brush''', '''hair dye''', '''hair oil''', '''hairpin''', '''hair powder''', a brush, a dye, etc., for the hair
*'''Against the hair''', ''(Obsolete)'': in a rough and disagreeable manner; against the grain
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*You go against the hair of your professions. - Shakespeare, ''Merry Wives of Windsor, II-iii''
*'''Hair bracket''', ''(Ship Carpentry):'' a molding which comes in at the back of, or runs aft from, the figurehead
*'''Hair cells''', ''(Anatomy):'' cells with hairlike processes in the sensory epithelium of certain parts of the internal ear
*'''Hair compass''', '''Hair divider''', a compass or divider capable of delicate adjustment by means of a screw
*'''Hair glove''', a glove of horsehair for rubbing the skin
*'''Hair lace''', a netted fillet for tying up the hair of the head. - [[Swift]]
*'''Hair line''', a line made of hair; a very slender line
*'''Hair moth''', ''(Zoölogy):'' any moth which destroys goods made of hair, especially ''[[Tinea biselliella]]''
*'''Hair pencil''', a brush or fine hair, for painting; -- generally called by the name of the hair used; as, a camel's hair pencil, a sable's hair pencil, etc.
*'''Hair plate''', an iron plate forming the back of the hearth of a bloomery fire
*'''Hair powder''', a white perfumed powder, as of flour or starch, formerly much used for sprinkling on the hair of the head, or on wigs
*'''Hair seal''', ''(Zoölogy):'' any one of several species of eared seals which do not produce fur; a sea lion
*'''Hair seating''', haircloth for seats of chairs, etc.
*'''Hair shirt''', a shirt, or a band for the loins, made of horsehair, and worn as a penance.
*'''Hair sieve''', a strainer with a haircloth bottom
*'''Hair snake'''. See [[Gordius]]
*'''Hair space''', ''(Printing):'' the thinnest metal space used in lines of type
*'''Hair stroke''', a delicate stroke in writing
*'''Hair trigger''', a trigger so constructed as to discharge a firearm by a very slight pressure, as by the touch of a hair. - [[Farrow]]
*'''Not worth a hair''', of no value
*'''To a hair''', with the nicest distinction
*'''To split hairs''', to make distinctions of useless nicety.

===Related terms===
*[[haircut]]
*[[hairy]]
*[[hirsute]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:Hair|*]]
[[Category:Anatomy]]
[[Category:English homophones]]

[[ang:hair]]
[[es:hair]]
[[fr:hair]]
[[ko:hair]]
[[io:hair]]
[[it:hair]]
[[hu:hair]]
[[ja:hair]]
[[sr:hair]]
[[fi:hair]]
[[ta:hair]]
[[zh:hair]]