{{see|Halcyon}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[halcyon#Latin|halcyon]]'', ''[[alcyon]]'', from Greek [[ἀλκυων]] (sometimes [[ἁλκυων]], misinterpreted as representing [[ἁλς]] ‘sea’ + [[κυων]] ‘conceiving’), cognate with Latin ''[[alcedo]]'' ‘kingfisher’.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/'hælsɪən/}}
*{{audio|en-us-halcyon.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# in classical legends, a bird said to [[nest]] on the sea and to calm the waters to make this possible.
#*''undated'' — [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]], ''(source?)''
#*:Amidst our arms as quiet you shall be As '''halcyons''' brooding on a winter sea.
# {{poetic}} a [[kingfisher]]
#*'''c.1880''' — [[w:Ambrose Bierce|Ambrose Bierce]], ''[[s:On a Mountain|On a Mountain]]''
#*:And, by the way, during those halcyon days (the '''halcyon''' was there, too, chattering above every creek, as he is all over the world) we fought another battle.
#{{zoology}} A tropical kingfisher of the genus ''[[Halcyon]]'', such as the sacred kingfisher ''[[Halcyon sancta]]'' of Australia.

====Translations====
;kingfisher
{{top}}
*Spanish: [[alcedón]], [[alción]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;bird of genus ''Halcyon''
{{top}}
*Spanish: [[alcedón]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-ad|halcyon}}
#Pertaining to the halcyon or kingfisher
#[[calm|Calm]], [[undisturbed]], [[peaceful]], [[serene]]. 

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1700s=1787|
1900s=1919}}
*'''1787''' — [[w:Alexander Hamilton|Alexander Hamilton]], ''[[s:Federalist No. 30|Federalist Papers No. 30]]''
*:Reflections of this kind may have trifling weight with men who hope to see realized in America the '''halcyon''' scenes of the poetic or fabulous age.
*''(undated)''— [[w:Thomas de Quincey|Thomas de Quincey]], ''(source?)''
*:*Deep, '''halcyon''' repose.
*'''1919''' — [[w:H.P. Lovecraft|H.P. Lovecraft]], ''[[s:The City|The City]]''
*:I had wander’d in rapture beneath them, and bask’d in the '''Halcyon''' clime.

====Synonyms====
*(''calm, serene''): [[at peace]], [[blissful]], [[calm]], [[peaceful]], [[relaxed]], [[serene]]

===See also===
*[[Alcyone]]
*[[halcyon days]]

[[Category:Birds]]
----

==Latin==
[[Category:Latin words from Greek]]
===Etymology===
From Greek [[ἀλκυων]] “kingfisher”
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/haːlˈkʏ.ɔn/}}
===Alternative spellings===
*[[alcyon]]

===Noun===
'''halcyon''' (''genitive'' '''[[halcyinis]]'''); {{f}}, ''[[Wiktionary Appendix:Latin third declension|third declension]]'' <!-- Is the genitive correct? -->

# [[kingfisher]]

===Related terms===
*[[alcedo]]
*[[Alcyone#Latin|Alcyone]]

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[fr:halcyon]]
[[io:halcyon]]
[[zh:halcyon]]