==English==
===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#   A deceptive statement, especially one that is only partly true.

2.  A deceptive statement that is part of the truth, or incomplete.

3.  A statement that is out of context.

4.  A statement that uses a word with an atypical meaning.

5.  A statement that misrepresents reality.

6. A statement that is out of time order.

Please note some forms of 'half-truths' are also 'truths' and 'lies' and should be included in the definitions of those words.

-------

Two classic example:(Source The Faces of Feminism.(C.S.))

Spousal Abuse: Stop violence against women.
"Stop violence against women".  (contains three half-truths)
The issue is abuse, not violence.  Violence is part of the whole spectrum of abuse.
The issue of abuse, involves men, women and children, to speak only of women, is again part of the whole spectrum of potential victims.
The statement implies a third half-truth, that men are the abusers.

Child abuse:
"Men who abuse, women and children victims"
The issue is child abuse, you will note that women are included as victims.  (Statement is partly true)
"Men who abuse", is again part of the spectrum of abusers, the others include some women, some children, some systems,... and the children themselves who may self abuse.
Child abuse suggests child as victims but does not speak of children as abusers, another form of half-truth.


:(Source The Faces of Feminism.(C.S.))


--[[User:Caesarjbsquitti|Caesarjbsquitti]] 03:19, 13 August 2006 (UTC)