{{webster}}
==English==

{{rank|mother|often|themselves|268|half|certain|sent|keep}}

===Etymology===
Anglo-Saxon ''[[healf]]'', ''half'' ('half'); as a noun, 'half', 'side', 'part'; akin to Old Saxon, Old Friesian, and Dutch ''[[half#Dutch|half]]'', German ''[[halb]]'', Swedish ''[[half#Swedish|half]]'', Danish ''[[halv]]'', Icelandic ''[[h&#257;lfr]]'' and Gothic [[𐌷𐌰𐌻𐌱𐍃]] (halbs). Compare ''[[halve]]'', ''[[behalf]]''.

===Adjective===
'''half'''

#Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view
#:'''Note:''' The adjective and noun are often united to form a compound.
#Consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half; approximately a half, whether more or less; partial; imperfect; as, a half dream; half knowledge.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Assumed from thence a half consent. —[[Tennyson]]

====Translations====

'''consisting of a half'''
{{top}}
*German: [[halb]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[пол-]] (pol-), [[полу-]] (polu-)
*Swahili: [[nusu]]
*Finnish: [[puoli]]
{{bottom}}

'''consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half'''
{{top}}
*German: [[halb]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
<!--Note: many of these are or may be hyphenated-->
*[[half ape]]<!-- (''zoölogy'') a lemur-->
*[[half back]]<!-- (''football'') See under 2d [[back]]-->
*[[half bent]]<!-- the first notch, for the [[sear point]] to enter, in the tumbler of a gunlock; the halfcock notch-->
*[[half binding]]<!-- a style of bookbinding in which only the back and corners are in leather-->
*[[half boarder]]<!-- one who boards in part; specifically, a scholar at a boarding school who takes dinner only-->
*[[half-breadth plan]]<!-- (''shipbuilding'') a horizontal plan of the half a vessel, divided lengthwise, showing the lines-->
*[[half cadence]]<!-- (''music'') a cadence on the dominant-->
*[[half cap]]<!-- (''obsolete'') a slight salute with the cap. — Shakespeare-->
*[[half cock]]<!-- the position of the cock of a gun when retained by the first notch-->
*[[half cocked]]<!-- or '''halfcocked:''' unprepared, lacking forethought; — as in go off '''half cocked'''-->
*[[half hitch]]<!-- a sailor’s knot in a rope; half of a clove hitch-->
*[[half hose]]<!-- short stockings; socks-->
*[[half-life]]<!-- The time taken for a given radioactive element to decay to half its number.-->
*[[Half Life]]<!-- A computer game-->
*[[half measure]]<!-- an imperfect or weak line of action-->
*[[half note]]<!-- (''music'') a minim, one half of a semibreve-->
*[[half page]]<!-- half of a single page, of a book.-->
*[[half pay]]<!-- half of the wages or salary; reduced pay; as, an officer on '''half pay'''-->
*[[half price]]<!-- half the ordinary price; or a price much reduced-->
*[[half round]]<!--
**(''architecture'') A molding of semicircular section
**(''mechanical'') Having one side flat and the other rounded; — said of a file-->
*[[half shift]]<!-- (''music'') a position of the hand, between the open position and the first shift, in playing on the violin and kindred instruments. See [[shift]]-->
*[[half step]]<!-- (''music'') a semitone; the smallest difference of pitch or interval, used in music-->
*[[half tide]]<!-- the time or state of the tide equally distant from ebb and flood-->
*[[half time]]<!-- half the ordinary time for work or attendance; as, the half-time system-->
*[[half tint]]<!-- (''fine arts'') a middle or intermediate tint, as in drawing or painting. See [[demitint]]-->
*[[half truth]]<!-- a statement only partially true, or which gives only a part of the truth. — [[Mrs. Browning]]-->
*[[half year]]<!-- the space of six months; one term of a school when there are two terms in a year.-->

===Adverb===
'''half'''

#In an equal part or degree; in some part approximating a half; partially; imperfectly; as, '''half'''-colored, '''half''' done, '''half'''-hearted, '''half''' persuaded, '''half''' conscious.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''Half''' loth and '''half''' consenting. — [[Dryden]]
#:*Their children spoke '''half''' in the speech of Ashdod. — ''Nehemiah 13:24''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[halb]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[почти]] (počtí), [[наполовину]] (napolovínu)
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''half''' (''plural:'' '''[[halves]]''')

#[[one]] of [[two]] [[equal]] [[part]]s into which anything may be [[divide]]d, or considered as divided; — sometimes followed by of; as, a '''half''' of an apple.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Not '''half''' his riches known, and yet despised. — [[Milton]]
#:*A friendship so complete Portioned in '''halves''' between us — [[Tennyson]]
#{{arithmetic}} ('''a half''') The fraction obtained by dividing 1 by 2.
#:''Three-quarters minus a quarter is a half.''
#(''obsolete'') part; side; behalf — [[Wyclif]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The four '''halves''' of the house — [[Chaucer]]

====Translations====

'''one of two equal parts into which anything may be divided'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[نصف]]}} {{Unicode|(nuʂf)}}
*Bulgarian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*Chinese: [[半]] (bàn)
*Dutch: [[helft]]
*French: [[moitié]] {{f}}
*German: [[Hälfte]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[metà]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[半分]] (はんぶん, hambún)
*Korean: [[반]] (ban)
*Marathi: [[अर्धा]] (ardhaa)
*Portuguese: [[metade]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*Slovene: [[polovica]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[mitad]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[hälft]]
{{bottom}}

'''fraction'''
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[نصف]]}} {{Unicode|(nuʂf)}}
*Bulgarian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*French: [[demi]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[metà]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[半分]] (はんぶん, hambún)
*Korean: [[반]] (ban)
*Portuguese: [[metade]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*Spanish: [[mitad]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''part; side; behalf'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[сторона]] (storoná) {{f}}
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[better half]]
*[[in half]]<!-- (''colloquial'') an expression sometimes used improperly instead of in or into halves; as, to cut in half. — [[Dickens]]-->
*[[in one's half]]<!-- [[on one's half]]: (''obsolete'') in one's behalf; on one's part-->
*[[cry halves]]<!-- to claim an equal share with another-->
*[[go halves]]<!-- to share equally between two.-->
*[[other half]]

===Verb===
'''to half'''

#''(transitive)'' (''obsolete'') To [[halve]]<!--. — [[Sir H. Wotton]]-->

====Translations====

'''to halve'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[puolittaa]], [[panna puoliksi]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[делить]] [[пополам]] (delít’ popolám)
{{bottom}}

===Translations to be checked===
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[половина]] (polovína) {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[半]] (bàn)
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[半分]] (はんぶん, hambún)
*{{ttbc|Marathi}}: [[अर्धा]] (ardhaa)
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[jumătate]]

[[Category:English irregular plurals]]

-----

==German==
===Verb form===
'''half'''

# ''past tense of [[helfen]]''
[[Category:German verb forms]]

[[fr:half]]
[[it:half]]
[[hu:half]]
[[nl:half]]
[[ru:half]]
[[fi:half]]
[[ta:half]]