==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[halleluiah]]<!--I don't know this one...--><!-- It's older, I think, and more phonetic --dmh -->
*[[alleluia]]

===Etymology===
From Hebrew הללןיה meaning "Praise God!"

===Interjection===
'''hallelujah!'''
# An exclamation used in songs of praise or thanksgiving to God.
# A general expression of gratitude or adoration.
#: ''Hallelujah!  It's finally the weekend!''

<!-- originally fi fr ia sk were under a "noun and interjection" heading, please make any corrections -->
====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[halleluja]]
*French: [[alléluia]]
*German: [[Halleluja]] (1,2)
*Hebrew: [[הללןיה]] (hallelúyah)
*Icelandic [[hallelúja]]
*Interlingua: [[alleluia#Interlingua|alleluia]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[alleluja]]
*Russian: [[аллилуйя]]
*Slovak: [[aleluja]]
*Spanish: [[aleluya]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A shout of "Hallelujah".
# (''plural'') General praise.

===Quotations===
*So sung they, and the empyrean rung With Hallelujahs. - [[Milton]]
*But I reserve my hallelujahs for the St. Louis pork ribs (half slab, $13/ full slab, $18.95) and the baby back ribs ($15.99, half/ $22.95, full), which were just as Smoky said they should be--tenderly succulent, with meat that pulls from the bone with minimal effort, but hasn't lost its texture from overcooking. &mdash; Lorraine Gengo in [http://www.fairfieldweekly.com/gbase/Dining/content?oid=oid:106817 Rib Religion], Fairfield County Weekly, April 7, 2005

<!-- originally fi fr ia sk were under a "noun and interjection" heading, please make any corrections -->
====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[halleluja]]
*French: [[alléluia]]
*German: [[Halleluja]] ''n''
*Hebrew: [[האללןיה]]
*Interlingua: [[alleluia#Interlingua|alleluia]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[alleluja]]
*Russian: [[аллилуйя]]
*Slovak: [[aleluja]]
{{bottom}}

[[fr:hallelujah]]
[[vi:hallelujah]]
[[zh:hallelujah]]