''See also [[HALO]]''
==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[halos]];'' Greek ''[[halōs]]'' (''[[threshing floor]], [[disk]], halo''). (Eng. usg. 1603)

===Noun===
'''halo''' (Plural: '''[[halos]]''' or '''[[haloes]]''')

# (''Astronomy'') A [[circular]] [[band]] of [[coloured]] [[light]], visible around the [[sun]] or [[moon]] etc., caused by [[reflection]] and [[refraction]] of light by [[ice]] [[crystal]]s in the [[atmosphere]].
# Anything resembling this band.
# (''Religious'') A [[nimbus]], or luminous [[disc]], often of [[gold]], around the heads of [[saint]]s etc. in [[religious]] [[painting]]s.
# (''Video games'') A [[video game]] developed by [[Bungie]] and published by [[Microsoft]].

====Translations====
'''atmospheric phenomenon'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: halo, [[kehä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''anything resembling the phenomenon'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''luminous disc around the heads of saints'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[oreol#Bosnian|oreol]] {{m}}, [[nimbus#Bosnian|nimbus]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[sädekehä]]
*Hindi: [[तेजोमंडल]] (tejoma.n.dal)
{{mid}}
*Marahi: [[तेजोवलय]] (tejovalay)
*Serbian:
:Cyrillic: [[ореол#Serbian|ореол]] {{m}}, [[нимбус#Serbian|нимбус]] {{m}}
:Latin: [[oreol#Serbian|oreol]] {{m}}, [[nimbus#Serbian|nimbus]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
'''halo'''

#To [[encircle]] with a halo.

====Translations====
'''to encircle with a halo'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Turkish : Hale
{{bottom}}


===Related terms===
*[[halation]]

[[Category:English irregular plurals]]

----

==Breton==
===Noun===
'''halo''' ''m''

# [[saliva]]

[[Category:Breton nouns]]

[[fr:halo]]
[[io:halo]]
[[ku:halo]]
[[zh:halo]]
Excuse me. this is a public webpage and if you cannot obide by the moral conduct, you will be burned at the stake.

mmmmm. kinky

Why was the edit I made removed?
There are a variety of reasons (some common reasons). The first thing you should do is look at the history page for the article you edited. This will tell you who changed it, when they changed it, and hopefully a short reason why they changed it. If it says something like see talk, then you should look at the talk page for the article. Also, you should look at your own talk page to see if you have a message there. If you don't find a reason that is satisfactory, politely ask in the article's talk page about your proposed change, and maybe you will get suggestions about changes that you can make so that your change will go in, or you may get reasons why your change should not happen.

That goes against code of conduct 2.3