==English==
===Etymology===
[[Middle High German]] ''halt'' (imperative of ''[[halten]]''); [[Old High German]] ''[[haltan]]''. (Eng. usg. ca. 1598 in one sense, the intransitive verb sense wasn't used until 1656)

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔːlt|-ɔːlt]]

===Intransitive Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# to [[stop]] either [[temporarily]] or [[permanently]]
# to cause something to stop
#* ''The contract negotiations '''halted''' operations for at least a week.''
# to waver or be hesitant

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[pysähtyä]] (1), [[pysäyttää]] (2)
*German: [[anhalten]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# a [[cessation]] either [[temporary]] or [[permanent]]
#* ''The contract negotiations put a '''halt''' on operations.

===Translations===
*German: [[Halt]] [[Pause]]

===Interjection===
'''Halt!'''
# [[Stop]]!

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[seis]]
*German: [[Halt]]!
*Portuguese: [[alto]]!, [[alto lá]]!

===Etymology 2===
As used before the 12th century. From the Old English ''[[healt]]''.
====Verb====
# to proceed lamely
# to [[waver]]
# to [[falter]]

====Adjective====
# lame.

====Usage note====
Military squad leaders use '''halt''' as a command to stop troops that are moving in formation.  Also used in command to persons about to enter a guarded area, or to stop a fleeing enemy or prisoner.

----

==Danish==

=== Adjective ===
'''halt'''

#[[lame]]

[[Category:Danish adjectives]]

----

==Hungarian==
===Verb form===
'''halt''' (past of the verb [[hal]])

# [[died]]

[[Category:Hungarian verb forms]]

[[fa:halt]]
[[fr:halt]]
[[io:halt]]
[[it:halt]]
[[hu:halt]]
[[pl:halt]]
[[ru:halt]]
[[fi:halt]]
[[ta:halt]]
[[vi:halt]]
[[zh:halt]]