==English==
===Etymology 1===
Contracted from [[hanaper]]
===Noun===
#A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as,
#* a '''hamper''' of wine; 
#* a clothes '''hamper'''; 
#* an oyster '''hamper''', which contains two bushels.

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[mand]] ''m'' (1), [[wasmand]] ''m'''(2)

===Transitive verb===
'''to hamper''' (''Imperfect and past participle:'' '''hampered''', ''present participle:'' '''hampering''')
#To put in a hamper.

===Etymology 2===
Old English ''[[hamperen]]'', ''[[hampren]]'', probably of the same origin as English ''[[hamble]]''
===Transitive verb===
'''to hamper''' (''Imperfect and past participle:'' '''hampered''', ''present participle:'' '''hampering''')
#To put a hamper or [[fetter]] on; to [[shackle]]; to [[insnare]]; to [[inveigle]]; hence, to [[impede]] in motion or progress; to [[embarrass]]; to [[encumber]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''Hampered''' nerves. - [[Blackmore]]
#:*A lion '''hampered''' in a net. - [[L'Estrange]]
#:*They ''hamper''' and entangle our souls. - [[Tillotson]]

====Translations====

*Dutch: [[blokkeren]]

===Noun===
'''hamper'''
#A [[shackle]]; a [[fetter]]; anything which [[impede]]s. - [[W. Browne]]
#(''Nautical'') [[Article]]s [[ordinary|ordinarily]] [[indispensable]], but in the way at certain times. - [[Ham. Nav. Encyc.]]
===Derived expression===
*'''Top hamper''', ''(Nautical):'' unnecessary spars and rigging kept aloft.

====Translations====

*Dutch: [[struikelblok]]? ''n''

[[it:hamper]]