==English==
===Etymology===
[[Anglo-Saxon]] ''hand'', ''hond''; akin to Dutch, German, and Swedish ''hand'', [[Old High German]] ''hant'', Danish ''hånd'', Icelandic ''hönd'', Gothic ''handus'', and perhaps to Gothic ''hinpan'', to seize (in compounds).  Compare [[hunt]].

''The material below is (probably) from Websters, 1913 edition, and has not been formatted''

===Noun===
#That part of the fore limb below the forearm or wrist in man and monkeys, and the corresponding part in many other animals; manus; paw. See [[Manus]]
#That which resembles, or to some extent performs the office of, a human hand; #as, 
#:(a) A limb of certain animals, as the foot of a hawk, or any one of the four extremities of a monkey
#:(b) An index or pointer on a dial; such as the hour or minute '''hand''' of a clock
#A measure equal to a hand's breadth, -- four inches; a palm. Chiefly used in measuring the height of horses.
#Side; part; direction, either right or left.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*On this '''hand''' and that '''hand''', were hangings. - ''Exodus 38:15''
#:*The Protestants were then on the winning '''hand''' - [[Milton]]
#Power of performance; means of execution; ability; skill; dexterity.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He had a great mind to try his '''hand''' at a Spectator. - [[Addison]] 
#Actual performance; deed; act; workmanship; agency; hence, manner of performance.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*To change the '''hand''' in carrying on the war. - [[Clarendon]] 
#:*Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my '''hand'''. - ''Judges 6:36''
#An agent; a servant, or laborer; a workman, trained or competent for special service or duty; a performer more or less skillful; as,
#:a deck '''hand'''
#:a farm '''hand'''
#:an old '''hand''' at speaking.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A dictionary containing a natural history requires too many '''hands''', as well as too much time, ever to be hoped for. - [[Locke]]
#:*I was always reckoned a lively '''hand''' at a simile. - [[Hazlitt]]
#Handwriting; style of penmanship; as,
#:a good, bad or running '''hand'''. Hence, a signature.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I say she never did invent this letter; This is a man's invention and his '''hand''' - Shakespeare, ''As You Like It, IV-iii''
#:*Some writs require a judge's '''hand''' - [[Burril]]
#Personal possession; ownership; hence, control; direction; management; -- usually in the plural.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Receiving in '''hand''' one year's tribute. - [[Knolles]]
#:*Albinus . . . found means to keep in his '''hands''' the government of Britain. - [[Milton]]
#Agency in transmission from one person to another; as,
#:to buy at first '''hand''', that is, from the producer, or when new; at second '''hand''', that is, when no longer in the producer's hand, or when not new
#''(Obsolete):'' Rate; price.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Business is bought at a dear '''hand''', where there is small dispatch. - [[Bacon]]
#That which is, or may be, held in a hand at once; as
#:(a) ''(Card Playing):'' The quota of cards received from the dealer.
#:(b) ''(Tobacco Manufacturing):'' A bundle of tobacco leaves tied together.
#''(Firearms):'' The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped by the hand in taking aim.
#The long narrow flat rods on the [[face]] of an analog [[clock]], often ornately carved or shaped, which are used to indicate the [[time]] of day.
===Usage===
'''Hand''' is used figuratively for a large variety of acts or things, in the doing, or making, or use of which the hand is in some way employed or concerned; also, as a symbol to denote various qualities or conditions, as,
:(a)Activity; operation; work; -- in distinction from the [[head]], which implies thought, and the [[heart]], which implies affection. 
::His '''hand''' will be against every man. - ''Genesis 16:12''
:(b)Power; might; supremacy; -- often in the Scriptures. 
::With a mighty '''hand''' . . . will I rule over you. - ''Ezekiel 20:33''.
:(c)Fraternal feeling; as, to give, or take, the '''hand'''; to give the right '''hand''' 
:(d)Contract; -- commonly of marriage; as, to ask the '''hand'''; to pledge the hand
====Derived expressions====
Hand is often used adjectively or in compounds (with or without the hyphen), signifying
*performed by the hand; as, 
*:'''hand blow''' or '''hand-blow''', 
*:'''hand gripe''' or '''hand-gripe'''
*used by, or designed for the hand; as, 
*:'''hand ball''' or '''handball''', 
*:'''hand bow''', 
*:'''hand fetter''', 
*:'''hand grenade''' or '''hand-grenade''', 
*:'''handgun''' or '''hand gun''', 
*:'''handloom''' or '''hand loom''', 
*:'''handmill''',
*:'''hand organ''' or '''handorgan''', 
*:'''handsaw''' or '''hand saw''', 
*:'''hand-weapon'''
*Measured or regulated by the hand; as, 
*:'''handbreadth''' or '''hand's breadth''', 
*:'''hand gallop''' or '''hand-gallop'''. 
*Most of the following words are written either as two words or in combination.
*:'''Hand bag''', a satchel; a small bag for carrying books, papers, parcels, etc.
*:'''Hand basket''', a small or portable basket.
*:'''Hand bell''', a small bell rung by the hand; a table bell. - [[Bacon]]
*:'''Hand bill''', a small pruning hook. See at [[Bill]]
*:'''Hand car''', See under [[Car]]
*:'''Hand director''', ''(Music):'', an instrument to aid in forming a good position of the hands and arms when playing on the piano; a hand guide.
*:'''Hand drop''', See Wrist drop
*:'''Hand gallop''', See under [[Gallop]]
*:'''Hand gear''', ''(Machinery):'' apparatus by means of which a machine, or parts of a machine, usually operated by other power, may be operated by hand.
*:'''Hand glass''', (a)A glass or small glazed frame, for the protection of plants. or (b)A small mirror with a handle.
*:'''Hand guide''', Same as '''Hand director''' (above)
*:'''Hand job''', an act of masturbation performed by someone other than oneself.
*:'''Hand language''', the art of conversing by the hands, esp. as practiced by the deaf and dumb; dactylology.
*:'''Hand lathe'''. See under [[Lathe]]
*:'''Hand money''', money paid in hand to bind a contract; earnest money.
*:'''Hand organ''', ''(Music):'' a barrel organ, operated by a crank turned by hand.
*:'''Hand plant''', ''(Botant):'' Same as '''Hand tree''' (below).
*:'''Hand rail''', a rail, as in staircases, to hold by. - [[Gwilt]]
*:'''Hand sail''', a sail managed by the hand. - [[Sir W. Temple]]
*:'''Hand screen''', a small screen to be held in the hand.
*:'''Hand screw''', a small jack for raising heavy timbers or weights; ''(Carpentry):'' a screw clamp.
*:'''Hand staff''', (plural Hand staves), a javelin. - ''Ezekiel 39:9''
*:'''Hand stamp''', a small stamp for dating, addressing, or canceling papers, envelopes, etc.
*:'''Hand tree''', ''(Botany), a lofty tree found in Mexico, ''Cheirostemon platanoides'', having red flowers whose stamens unite in the form of a hand.
*:'''Hand vise''', a small vise held in the hand in doing small work. - [[Moxon]]
*:'''Hand work''', or '''Handwork''', work done with the hands, as distinguished from work done by a machine; handiwork.
*:'''All hands''', everybody; all parties.
*:'''At all hands''', '''On all hands''', on all sides; from every direction; generally.
*:'''At any hand''', '''At no hand''', in any (or no) way or direction; on any account; on no account. And therefore 
*::"'''at no hand''' consisting with the safety and interests of humility." - [[Jer. Taylor]]
*:'''At first hand''', '''At second hand'''. See def. 10 (above).
*:'''At hand'''. (a) Near in time or place; either present and within reach, or not far distant. 
*:::"Your husband is '''at hand'''; I hear his trumpet." - Shakespeare, ''Merchant of Vinice, V-i''
*::(b) ''(Obsolete):'' Under the hand or bridle. 
*:::"Horses hot '''at hand'''." - Shakespeare, ''Julius Caesar, IV-ii''
*:'''At the hand of''', by the act of; as a gift from. 
*::Shall we receive good '''at the hand of''' God and shall we not receive evil?" - ''Job 2:10''.
*:'''Bridle hand'''. See under [[Bridle]]
*:'''By hand''', with the hands, in distinction from instrumentality of tools, engines, or animals; as, 
*::to weed a garden '''by hand'''; 
*::to lift, draw, or carry '''by hand'''
*:'''Clean hands''', freedom from guilt, esp. from the guilt of dishonesty in money matters, or of bribe taking. 
*::He that hath '''clean hands''' shall be stronger and stronger. - ''Job 17:9'' 
*:'''From hand to hand''', from one person to another.
*:'''Hand in hand'''. (a) In union; conjointly; unitedly. - [[Swift]]
*::(b) Just; fair; equitable. "As fair and as good, a kind of '''hand in hand''' comparison. - Shakespeare, ''Cymbeline, I-iv''
*:'''Hand off''', to transfer someone, usually a person one is conversing with over a communication device such as a telephone or radio, to someone else.
*:'''Hands off!''', keep off! forbear! no interference or meddling!
*:'''Hands down''', unquestionably; without doubt: ''hands down the strongest of the bunch''
*:'''Hand over fist''', usually used with the phase 'making [[money]]' to indicate one is making a large amount of money either in a [[transaction]] or a series of transactions.
*:'''Hand over hand''', '''Hand over fist''', by passing the hands alternately one before or above another; as, to climb '''hand over hand'''; also, rapidly; as, to come up with a chase '''hand over hand'''
*:'''Hand over head''', ''(Obsolete):'' negligently; rashly; without seeing what one does. - [[Bacon]]
*:'''Hand running''', <cd>consecutively; as, he won ten times '''hand running'''
*:'''Hand to hand''', in close union; in close fight; as, a '''hand to hand''' contest. - [[Dryden]]
*:'''Heavy hand''', severity or oppression.
*:'''In hand'''. (a) Paid down. "A considerable reward '''in hand''', and . . . a far greater reward hereafter." - [[Tillotson]]
*::(b) In preparation; taking place. - [[Chaucer]]. 
*:::What revels are '''in hand''' - Shakespeare, ''Midsummer Night's Dream, V-i''
*::(c) Under consideration, or in the course of transaction; as, he has the business '''in hand'''
*:'''In one's hand''' or '''hands'''. (a) In one's possession or keeping.
*::(b) At one's risk, or peril; as, I took my life '''in my hand'''
*:'''Laying on of hands''', a form used in consecrating to office, in the rite of confirmation, and in blessing persons.
*:'''Light hand''', gentleness; moderation.
*:'''Note of hand''', a promissory note.
*:'''Off hand''', '''Out of hand''', forthwith; without delay, hesitation, or difficulty; promptly. ''She causeth them to be hanged up '''out of hand'''.'' - [[Spenser]]
*:'''Off one's hands''', out of one's possession or care.
*:'''On hand''', in present possession; ''he has a supply of goods '''on hand'''''
*:'''On one's hands''', in one's possession care, or management.
*:'''Out of hand''', excessive or uncontrollable.  ''We need to shut off the water before the damage gets '''out of hand.'''''
*:'''Putting the hand under the thigh''', an ancient Jewish ceremony used in swearing.
*:'''Right hand''', the place of honor, power, and strength.
*:'''Slack hand''', idleness; carelessness; inefficiency; sloth.
*:'''Strict hand''', severe discipline; rigorous government.
*:'''To bear a hand''', ''(Nautical):'' to give help quickly; to hasten.
*:'''To bear in hand''', ''(Obsolete):'' to keep in expectation with false pretenses. Shakespeare
*:'''To be hand and glove with''', or '''...in glove...'''. See under [[Glove]]
*:'''To be on the mending hand''', to be convalescent or improving.
*:'''To bring up by hand''', to feed (an infant) without suckling it.
*:'''To change hand'''. See [[Change]]
*:'''To change hands''', to change sides, or change owners. - [[Hudibras]]
*:'''To clap the hands''', to express joy or applause, as by striking the palms of the hands together.
*:'''To come to hand''', to be received; to be taken into possession; as, the letter '''came to hand''' yesterday.
*:'''To get hand''', ''(Obsolete):'' to gain influence. 
*::"Appetites have . . . '''got''' such a '''hand''' over them. - [[Baxter]]
*:'''To got one's hand in''', to make a beginning in a certain work; to become accustomed to a particular business.
*:'''To have a hand in''', to be concerned in; to have a part or concern in doing; to have an agency or be employed in.
*:'''To have in hand'''. (a) To have in one's power or control. - [[Chaucer]]
*::(b) To be engaged upon or occupied with.
*:'''To have one's hands full''', to have in hand all that one can do, or more than can be done conveniently; to be pressed with labor or engagements; to be surrounded with difficulties.
*:'''To have...''', or '''get the (higher) upper hand''', to have, or get, the better of another person or thing.
*:'''To his hand''', '''To my hand''', etc., in readiness; already prepared. "The work is made '''to his hands'''" - [[Locke]]
*:'''To hold hand''', ''(Obsolete):'' to compete successfully or on even conditions. -  Shakespeare
*:'''To lay hands on''', to seize; to assault.
*:'''To lend a hand''', to give assistance,
*:'''To lift''', and/or '''put forth the hand against''', to attack; to oppose; to kill.
*:'''To live from hand to mouth''', to obtain food and other necessaries as want compels, without previous provision.
*:'''To make one's hand''', to gain advantage or profit.
*:'''To put the hand unto''', to steal. ''Exodus 22:8''
*:'''To put the last...''', and/or '''finishing hand to''', to make the last corrections in; to complete; to perfect.
*:'''To set the hand to''', to engage in; to undertake.
*::"That the Lord thy God may bless thee in all that thou settest thine hand to" - ''Deuteronomy 23:20''.
*:'''To stand one in hand''', to concern or affect one.
*:'''To strike hands''', to make a contract, or to become surety for another's debt or good behavior.
*:'''To take in hand'''. (a) To attempt or undertake
*::(b) To seize and deal with; as, he '''took''' him '''in hand'''
*:'''To wash the hands of''', to disclaim or renounce interest in, or responsibility for, a person or action; as, '''to wash one's hands of''' a business. - Matthew, 27:24.
*:'''Under the hand of''', authenticated by the handwriting or signature of; as, the deed is executed '''under the hand''' and seal '''of''' the owner.

===Transitive and intransitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: handed<br>
Present participle: handing
#To give, pass, or transmit with the hand; as, he '''handed''' them the letter
#To lead, guide, or assist with the hand; to conduct; as, to '''hand''' a lady into a carriage
#''(Obsolete):'' To manage; as, I '''hand''' my [[oar]]. - [[Prior]]
#''(Obsolete):'' To seize; to lay hands on. - Shakespeare
#''(Rare):'' To pledge by the hand; to handfast.
#''(Nautical):’’ To furl; -- said of a sail. - [[Totten]]
====Derived expressions====
*'''To hand down''', to transmit in succession, as from father to son, or from predecessor to successor; as, fables are '''handed down''' from age to age; to forward to the proper officer (the decision of a higher court); as, the Clerk of the Court of Appeals '''handed down''' its decision.
*:'''To hand over''', to yield control of; to surrender; to deliver up.
===Intransitive verb===
#''(Obsolete):'' To coöperate. - [[Massinger]]

''End of material from Websters, 1913 edition''

----
===Noun===
'''hand''' (''plural'' '''hands''')
#(''anatomy'') The part of the body at the [[extremity]] of the [[arm]] of a [[person]] or an [[ape]]; [[human]] hands have 5 [[finger]]s.
#A pointer of an [[analogue]]/[[analog]] [[clock]].
#(''playing cards'') The set of cards held by a player in a card game.
#(''maritime, sailing'') A sailor.
#A manual worker, especially on a farm.
#A distance equal to the width of a hand, used especially in measuring the height of [[horse]]s.

====Translations====

'''part of body'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*[[Catalan]]: [[mà]] ''f''
*Danish: [[hånd]]
*Dutch: hand ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[mano#Esperanto|mano]]
*Finnish: [[käsi]]
*French: [[main#French|main]] ''f''
*German: Hand ''f''
*Greek: [[γέρι]] ''n''
*[[Guaraní]]: [[po#Guaraní|po]]
*Hebrew: [[יד]] ''f''
*Indonesian: [[tangan]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[mano#Interlingua|mano]]
*Italian: [[mano#Italian|mano]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[手]] (て, te)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Korean: [[손]] (son)
*[[Nahuatl]]: [[maitl]]
*Persian: [[دَست]] (dæst)
*Polish: [[ręka]] ''f''
*Portuguese: [[mão]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[mână]] ''f''
*[[Romanica]]: [[mano]] ''f''
*{{sk}}: [[ruka]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[mano#Spanish|mano]] ''f''
*Swedish: hand ''c''
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[pó]]
*Turkish: [[el]]
*Welsh: [[llaw]] ''f''
|}
|}

'''pointer of an analogue/analog clock'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[aiguille]] ''f''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[flecha]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*{{sk}}: [[ručička]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[visare]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''set of cards held by a player in a card game'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: hand ''c''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''sailor'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''manual worker'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''distance equal to the width of a hand'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

===Translations to be checked===

'''The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  Note that the numbers are likely to be wrong.'''

*Basque: [[esku]] (1), [[bosteko]] (1), [[erlojuorratz]] (2), [[marinel]] (4), [[itsasgizon]] (4), [[eskubete]] (6)
*Breton: [[dorn]] ''m'' daouarn ''pl'', dornioù ''pl from several beings'' (1), [[biz]] ''m'' -ied ''pl'' (2), [[c'hoari]] ''m'', [[jeu]] ''f'' (3), [[martolod]] ''m'' -ed ''pl'' (4), [[micherour]] ''m'' -ien ''pl'' (5)
*Catalan: [[busca]] ''f'' (2), [[maneta]] ''f'' (2), [[agulla]] ''f'' (2), [[mà]] ''f'' (3), [[donada]] ''f'' (3), [[passada]] ''f'' (3), [[mariner]] ''m'' (4), [[mà d'obra]] ''f'' (5), [[grapat]] ''m'' (6)
*Chinese: [[手]] (shǒu), [[針]] (zhēn) (2), [[一手牌]] (yìshǒupái) (3), [[人手]] (rénshǒu)(4, 5)
*Dutch: [[wijzer]] ''m'' (2), [[matroos]] ''m'' (4), [[werkman]] ''m'' (5), [[handvol]] ''n'' (6)
*Esperanto: [[montrilo]] (2), [[matroso]] (4), [[ŝipano]] (4), [[maristo]] (4), [[plenmano]] (6)
*Finnish: [[käsi]] (3), [[viisari]] (2), [[osoitin]] (2)
*French: [[main]] ''f'' (3), [[matelot]] ''m'' (4)
*German: [[Zeiger]] ''m'' (2), [[Matrose]] ''m'' (4), [[Handvoll]] ''f'' (6)
*Greek: [[δειξτηs]] ''m'' (2), [[μοίρασμα]] ''n'' (3), [[ςαύτηs]] ''m'' (4), [[παλάμη]] ''f'' (6)
*Indonesian: [[jarum]] (2)
*Interlingua: [[repartition]] (3), [[marinero]] (4), [[laborator]] (5), [[manata]], [[pugnata]] (6)
*Japanese: [[針]] (はり, hari) (2)
*Korean: [[손]] (son) (5), [[시계바늘]] (sigyebaneul) (2), [[패]] [牌] (pae) (3), [[일손]] (5)
*Polish: [[wskazówka]] ''f'' (2)
*Portuguese: [[ponteiro]] ''m'' (2); [[mão]] ''f'' (3); [[marinheiro]] ''m'' (4); [[mão-de-obra]] ''f'' (5); [[punhado]] ''m'', [[mancheia]] ''f'' (6)
*Romanian: [[mână]] ''f'' (3); [[ac]] ''n'' (2)
*[[Romanica]]: [[flecha]] ''f'' (2), [[repartition]] ''f'' (3), [[marinero]] ''m'' (4), [[laborator]] ''m'' (5), [[manata]] ''f'', [[pugnata]] ''f'' (6)
*Spanish: [[mano]] ''f'' (3), [[manecilla]] ''f'' (2), [[aguja]] ''f'' (2), [[marinero]] ''m'' (4), [[mano de obra]] ''f'' (5), [[puñado]] ''m'' (6)
*Turkish: [[gemici]] (4), [[avuç dolusu]] (6)
*Welsh: [[llaw]] ''f'' (4)

===Transitive verb===
'''to hand''' (handing, handed, handed)

# To [[proffer]] or give.
#:''The sea captain '''handed''' me the map, indicating with his finger that we had entered the Bermuda Triangle.''

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[overhandigen]]
*Esperanto: [[doni]]
*Finnish: [[ojentaa]]
*French: [[donner]], [[passer]]
*[[Guaraní]]: [[me'ẽ]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[dar#Interlingua|dar]], [[passar]]
*Italian: [[dare#Italian|dare]], [[passare]]
*Portuguese: [[dar#Portuguese|dar]], [[passar#Portuguese|passar]], [[entregar]]
*[[Romanica]]: [[dar#Romanica|dar]], [[passar#Romanica|passar]]
*Swedish: [[ge]]
*Tupinambá: [[me'eng]]

===Related terms===
*[[at hand]]
*[[by hand]]
*[[give a hand]] to
*[[handmade]]
*[[hand over fist]]
*[[hands up]]
*[[lend a hand]]
*[[shake hands]]
*[[on the fingers of one hand]]
*[[on the one hand]]
*[[on the other hand]]

This material belongs on separate pages:
Dutch:
**'''Expressions'''
**:alle hens aan dek
**:all hands on deck
**:meaning: Everybody get on board of the ship or Is everybody on board of the ship?
*hand [[over]] [[head]]
:*[[Dutch]]: [[hals]] over [[kop]]

----
==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''hand''' (''plural'' [[handen]], ''diminutive'' [[handje]], ''plural diminutive'' [[handjes]])

#hand (''part of the body'')

----
==German==
===Noun===
'''Hand''' (''plural'' [[Hände]], ''diminutive'' [[Händchen]])

#hand (''part of the body'')

----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''hand''' (''plural'' [[händer]], ''definite singular'' [[handen]], ''definite plural'' [[händerna]])

#hand (''part of the body'')
#hand (''in a card game'')