==English==
===Adjective===
'''hanging''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#[[Suspend]]ed.
#:''The hanging vines made the house look older than it was.''
#(''chess'') Vulnerable to capture.
#:''Your queen rook is hanging.''

====Translations====
'''suspended'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[roikkuvat]]
*French: [[suspendu]] ''m'', suspendue ''f''
*Italian: [[sospeso]] ''m'', sospesa ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''chess: vulnerable to capture'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*Finnish: [[altis]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*German: [[hängen]] (1, 2) (is this the adjective?  It looks like a verb)

===Noun===
'''hanging''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]], plural'' '''hangings''')

#(''uncountable'') The act of [[hang]]ing a person (or oneself) by the neck in order to [[execute]] that person (or to commit suicide).
#(''countable'') A public event at which a person is [[hang]]ed.
#:''The hanging of the bandits was attended by the whole village.''
#(''countable'')  Anything wide, high and rather thin that is [[hang|hung]] as a [[decorative]] element (such as curtains, gobelins, wallpaper or posters).
#(''uncountable'') The way in which hangings (decorations) are arranged.
#:''I dislike the cramped hanging in the gallery of 18th century painters.''

====Translations====

'''means of execution'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''public event at which a person is hanged'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''anything wide, high and thin that is hung'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

'''way in which hangings (decorations) are arranged'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--Put translations for languages from J to Z here-->
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above, removing any numbers.  Any numbering associating translations with definitions is unreliable.

*Finnish: [[hirttäminen]] (1), [[hirttäjäiset]] (2)
*German: [[Erhängung]] ''f'' (1,2), [[Behang]] ''m'' (3), [[Hängung]] ''f'' (4)

===Derived terms===
*[[hanging gardens]]
*[[hanging participle]]
*[[wall hanging]]

===See also===
*[[w:hanging|Wikipedia article on hanging (method of execution)]]