==English==

{{rank|obliged|ourselves|pale|913|happiness|religion|dress|degree}}

===Etymology===
from [[happy]]
===Noun===
'''happiness'''
#[[joy]], the [[emotion]] of being [[happy]]
#Good luck; good fortune; prosperity.
#:All '''happiness''' bechance to thee in Milan! - [[w:William Shakespeare]], ''[[Wikisource:The Two Gentlemen of Verona]]'', I-i
#An agreeable feeling or condition of the soul arising from good fortune or propitious happening of any kind; the possession of those circumstances or that state of being which is attended [[enjoyment]]; the state of being happy; [[contentment]]; [[joyful]] [[satisfaction]]; [[felicity]]; [[blessedness]]
#Fortuitous elegance; unstudied grace; -- used especially of language.
#: Some beauties yet no precepts can declare, For there's a '''happiness''', as well as care. - [[w:Alexander Pope]].

====Synonyms====
*'''Happiness''', [[felicity]], [[blessedness]], [[bliss]]. 
*'''Happiness''' is [[generic]], and is applied to almost every kind of enjoyment except that of the animal appetites.
*'''Felicity''' is a more formal word, and is used more sparingly in the same general sense, but with elevated associations
*'''Blessedness''' is applied to the most refined enjoyment arising from the purest social, benevolent, and religious affections
*'''Bliss''' denotes still more exalted delight, and is applied more appropriately to the joy anticipated in heaven.
*:O '''happiness!''' our being's end and aim! - [[w:Alexander Pope]]
*:Others in virtue place '''felicity''', But virtue joined with riches and long life; In corporal pleasures he, and careless ease. - [[w:John Milton]]
*:His overthrow heaped '''happiness''' upon him; For then, and not till then, he felt himself, And found the blessedness of being little. - [[w:William Shakespeare]], ''[[Wikisource:The Life of King Henry VIII]], IV-ii

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[سعادة]]}} {{Unicode|(saʕá:da)}} {{f}}
*{{ceb}}: [[kalipay]]
*Chinese [[快樂]] (kuàilè), [[幸福]] (xìngfú)
*Dutch: [[geluk]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[ilo]], [[onni]]
*French: [[bonheur]] {{m}}
*German: [[Fröhlichkeit]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[boldogság]], [[vidámság]]
*Italian: [[felicità]] {{f}}, [[gioia]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[幸せ]] ([[しあわせ]], shiawasé), [[幸福]] (kōfuku), [[愉快]] (yukai), [[幸運]] (kōun)
{{mid}}
*Kannada: (sunthósha)
*Korean: [[행복]] (haengbok)
*Old English: [[ead|ēad]] {{n}}
*Portuguese: [[felicidade]] {{f}}, [[alegria]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[счастье]] (sčást’je)
*Slovene: [[sreča]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[felicidad]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[glädje]], [[lycka]]
*Turkish: [[saadet]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Emotions]]

===References===
Webster 1913

[[fr:happiness]]
[[ko:happiness]]
[[it:happiness]]
[[pl:happiness]]
[[fi:happiness]]
[[ta:happiness]]