==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
From Turkish [[#Turkish|harem]], from Arabic {{ARchar|[[حرم]]}} (ḥaram) ‘something prohibited; sanctuary, women’; and later also from {{ARchar|[[حريم]]}} (ḥarīm) with same meaning, both from {{ARchar|[[حرم]]}} (ḥaruma) ‘be forbidden or unlawful’.  (Eng. usg. 1623)

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#The private part of an Arab household. In traditional Arab culture, this part of the household was forbidden to male strangers.
#A group of women, wives and/or concubines in a polygamous household.
#A group of female animals (cows) herded and controlled by a male animal (bull) of that species for breeding purposes. Such behaviour is exhibited by bovids including cattle and buffalo as well as moose, elephants, seals, sea lions, sea elephants.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[حريم]]}}
*Bosnian: [[harem#Bosnian|harem]] {{m}}
*Bulgarian: [[харем#Bulgarian|харем]] {{m}}
*Chinese:
*:Simplified: [[妻妾]], [[后宫]]
*:Traditional: [[妻妾]], [[後宮]] (hougong - lit.: "the palaces behind.")
*Czech: [[harém]] {{m}}
*Dutch: harem {{m}}, [[vrouwenverblijf]]
*Estonian: [[haarem]]
*Finnish: [[haaremi]]
*French: harem {{m}}
*German: [[Harem]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[χαρέμι]]
{{mid}}
*Hebrew: [[הרמון]]
*Hindi: [[महलसरा]] (mahalsarā)
*Hungarian: [[hárem]]
*Italian: harem
*Korean: [[하렘]] (harem), [[후궁]] (hugung)
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[حريم]]}}
*Portuguese: [[harém]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[гарем]] {{m}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[харем#Serbian|харем]] {{m}}
*:Latin: [[harem#Serbian|harem]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[harén]]
*Swedish: harem {{n}}
*Turkish: harem
{{bottom}}

====See also====
{{top2}}
* [[concubine]]
* [[polygamy]]
* [[polygyny]]
{{mid2}}
* [[seraglio]]
*[[zenana]]
{{bottom}}

----

==Bosnian==
===Noun===
'''harem''' {{m}} {{s}} ({{p}}: '''haremi''')
#harem
[[Category:Bosnian nouns]]

----

==Serbian==
===Noun===
'''harem''' {{m}} {{s}} ({{p}}: '''haremi''')
#harem
====Cyrillic spelling====
*[[харем#Serbian|харем]]
[[Category:Serbian nouns]]

----

==Turkish==
===Noun===
'''harem'''
#harem
[[Category:Turkish nouns]]

[[fr:harem]]
[[io:harem]]
[[fi:harem]]
[[zh:harem]]