==English==

{{rank|on|her|which|25|have|or|from|this}}

===Etymology===
Old English [[habban]].

===Pronunciation===
*AHD: /hăv/
*IPA: /hæv/, /həv/, /əv/, ''for 2:'' /hæf/
*{{audio|en-us-have.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Verb===
[[Category:English irregular verbs]]
{{en-verb2|''to''&nbsp;'''have'''|'''[[has]] '''or, archaic,''' [[hath]]'''|'''[[had]]'''|'''[[had]]'''|'''[[having]]'''}}
{{red}}
Further archaic forms are second-person singular present tense''' [[hast]] '''and second-person singular past tense''' [[hadst]]'''.
{{bottom}}

#{{transitive}} To [[possess]], [[own]], [[hold]].
#:''I '''have''' a house and a car.''
#:''Look what I '''have''' here: A frog I found on the street!''
#{{transitive}} To [[partake]] of a particular substance or action
#:''I '''have''' breakfast at six o'clock''
#:''Can I '''have''' a look at that?''
#''(auxiliary verb)'' Used in forming the [[perfect tense]]s.
#:''I '''have''' already eaten today.''
#To [[procreate]], to [[give birth]]
#:''The couple always wanted to '''have''' children.''
#:''My wife is '''having''' the baby right now!''
#To engage in sexual intercourse.

====Translations====
'''to possess'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[有]] (yǒu) 
*Czech: [[mít]] 
*Danish: [[have]] 
*Dutch: [[hebben]] 
*Esperanto: [[havi]] 
*Finnish: [[omistaa]] 
*French: [[avoir]]
*German: [[haben]] [[:de:haben|de]]
*Greek: [[έχω]] 
*Indonesian: [[punya]], [[punya|mempunyai]] 
*Italian: [[avere]]
*Japanese: [[持つ]] ([[もつ]], motsu)
*Korean: [[가지다]] (kajida)
*Kurdish: [[hebûn]], [[heyîn]]
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[habere]]
*Norwegian: [[å ha]], [[har]], [[hadde]]
*[[Novial]]: [[have]]
*Old English: [[habban]]
*Polish: [[mieć]]
*Portuguese: [[ter]]
*Romanian: a [[avea]]
*Russian: [[иметь]]
*Slovak: [[mať]]
*Slovene: [[imeti]]
*Spanish: [[tener]]
*Swedish: [[äga]]
*Tagalog: [[magkaroón]]
*Ukrainian: [[мати#Verb|мати]]
{{bottom}}

'''to partake of something'''
{{top}}
*French: [[prendre]]
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: [[prenda]]
{{bottom}}

'''auxiliary forming the perfect tense'''
{{top}}
*Esperanto: [[esti]], [[jam]] (''with verb in simple tense'')
*Finnish: [[olla]]
*French: [[avoir]], [[être]]
*Greek: [[έχω]] 
*German: [[haben]], [[sein]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[har hat]]
*[[Novial]]: [[ha]]
*Old English: [[habban]]
*Spanish: [[haber]]
*Swedish: [[ha]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
''to'' '''have to''' ''do something''
#(''auxiliary verb'') Must. ''See'' [[have to]].

===Interrogative auxiliary verb===
'''have ...?''' (''[[third-person]] [[singular]]'' '''has ...?''')

#Used with a following [[pronoun]] to form [[tag question]]s after statements that use "have" to form the [[perfect tense]] or (in UK usage) in the present tense.
#:<tt>“</tt>We haven't eaten dinner yet, '''have we'''?<tt>”</tt>
#:<tt>“</tt>Your wife hasn't been reading that nonsense, '''has she'''?<tt>”</tt>
#:<tt>“</tt>I'd bet that student hasn't studied yet, '''have they'''?<tt>”</tt>
#:<tt>“</tt>You've known all along, '''haven't you'''?<tt>”</tt>
#:<tt>“</tt>The sun has already set, '''has it not'''?<tt>”</tt>
#:(''UK usage'') <tt>“</tt>He has some money, hasn't he?<tt>”</tt> (''see usage notes below'')

====Usage notes====
*This construction forms a tag that converts a present perfect tense sentence into a question. The tag always uses an object pronoun substituting for the subject. Negative sentences use ''has'' or ''have'', distinguished by number. Affirmative sentences use the same followed by ''not'', or alternatively, more commonly, and less formally, ''hasn't'' or ''haven't''.
*In American usage, this construction does not apply to present tense sentences with ''has'' or ''have'', or their negations, as a verb. In those cases, use "[[does]]" or its negation instead.  For example: "He has some money, doesn't he?"

===Related Terms===
*[[be had]]
*[[have to]]
*[[have it in for]]
*[[have it off]]
*[[have kittens]]

===See also===
*[[perfect tense]]

[[Category:English auxiliary verbs]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[ang:Have]]
[[da:Have]]
[[de:have]]
[[es:have]]
[[fr:have]]
[[gl:Have]]
[[io:Have]]
[[it:have]]
[[la:Have]]
[[nl:have]]
[[ja:have]]
[[pl:have]]
[[ru:Have]]
[[fi:have]]