==Hedge Fund==
 
The concept of a structurally hedged fund was brought into reality when Alfred Winslow Jones opened a new style of equity fund in 1949. Jones, making his living as a writer for “Fortune,” had penned an article which outlined various ways to invest in equities: his research for the piece had given him the idea of a fund that could make money on rising stocks and falling stocks. This innovative fund had characteristics which are shared by today’s hedge funds. In order to have the discretion to invest in the style he wanted Jones had to structure an investment vehicle which wasn’t regulated within the framework of the mutual fund industry. This was achieved by organising A.W. Jones & Company as a private partnership. The key feature he wanted to develop was to minimise the effect of equity market gyrations on returns. This could be done by borrowing a portfolio of shares and selling them short in addition to the traditional long portfolio. The combination of the two portfolios neutralised the effect of changes in the price level of the equity market as a whole. In addition the short sale of stocks raises capital which can be used to finance further stock positions. Jones took advantage of this to leverage the fund exposures and so enhance the returns. 


== Major characteristics of Hedge Funds ==
 private investment vehicle (limited partnership)
 wide powers of investment including use of leverage
 performance fees in addition to flat rate management fees
 open to sophisticated investors only
 fund based offshore 
 target absolute returns


== Secondary features of Hedge Funds ==
 the manager is invested in the fund
 high-water mark
 hurdle rate
 redemption fee