==English==
=== Etymology 1 ===
Written form of a [[w:reduction (linguistics)|reduction]] of "[[Hell]] [[of]] [[a]]"

=== Distribution ===

Probable origin in San Francisco Bay Area.  Flourishing in Northern California, with considerable [[sociolectal]] and [[idiolectal]] variation.   Alleged patterns of increase and decline since 1980 in Southern California, Pacific Northwest, Midwest.

=== Grammatical Properties ===
[[Category:English adjectives]]
Semantically, 'hella' is an intensifier, as is 'very'.  It is notable among both Standard American and regional intensifiers for its ability (for many speakers) to modify an unusually wide variety of syntactic categories:

:''intensifier to adjective'':

:*"I guess she seems '''hella stoned''' in her commercial and I have a thing for chicks that are stoned and/or drunk."[http://www.davezdyrko.com/babes/120902.html]
:*"I've been a Star Wars fan since I was '''HELLA young'''"[http://www.xanga.com/home.aspx?user=krazychowmein]

:''intensifier to comparative adjective''

:*"if next gen games look better than the current best PC games, then they will look '''hella better''' than the current Xbox games."[http://www.xboxaddict.com/forums/archive/index.php/t-69399.html]

:''intensifier to verb'':

:*"...eena was driving away, and the door was open, so i '''hella ran for it'''..."[http://www.nutang.com/bliss/weblog/covered_in_rain10/&exhume=5]

:''intensifer to noun'' (usually predicative, e.g. after ''be''):

:*"hope the LOCAL YOKALS didnt give u guys too hard of a time they can be '''hella assholes'''"[http://hardcoreforthepeople.com/forum/viewtopic.php?p=23345&sid=a5da5aff2c41b1f07b9c939a4239d46b]

:''discourse intensifier'' (indicating something particularly remarkable about the content expressed):

:*"Oh.. today's Cyrell's bday.. '''we hella sang her happy birthday at the spot'''..." [http://www.xanga.com/home.aspx?user=jtljc_RG]

:''additional citations'':

:*2002:"I've got a '''hella''' lot of travel over the next few weeks." &mdash; [http://www.coffeekid.com/cafetalk/09-19-2002]
:*2003:"The plaintiffs got $1 million in compensatory damages and $145 million in punitive damages.  That’s a '''hella''' lot of damages." &mdash; [http://lawschool.mikeshecket.com/civpro/11-10-03.htm]
:*2005:"It started to rain, and if anyone remembers from my previous post, how much i love Rock and Rain together. So it was going to be a '''hella''' time." &mdash; [http://www.insidepulse.com/ubbthreads/showflat.php?Cat=&Number=49998&Main=36997]

=== Sociolinguistic ===

Outside of its saturated region, the use of 'hella' has become a paramount stigma of Northern Californian dialect.  In recent years, for example, T-shirts have appeared in Southern California which read, "NorCal Hella Sucks."  An episode of "[[South Park]]" (which takes place in rural Colorado) involved [[Eric Cartman]] deciding to annoy the other boys though the frequent use of "hella".

=== See also ===
* [[helluva]]

=== References ===

:Waksler, Rachelle (San Francisco State University), "A HELLA New Specifier". [http://ling.ucsc.edu/Jorge/waksler.html]
:LanguageHat thread on 'hella' [http://www.languagehat.com/archives/000541.php]
:Urban Dictionary entries for 'hella' [http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=hella]

<!--
=== Etymology 2 ===
Originally a German trademark for a brand of headlight, probably from the same Germanic root as German ''[[hell#German|hell]]'' “bright, light.”

=== Proper noun ===
[[Category:English proper nouns]]
'''Hella'''&reg;
# a company trademark
-->
===See also===
*[[w:Hella|Wikipedia article on Hella, a town in Iceland]]
*[http://www.hella.com/produktion/HellaCOM/WebSite/HellaCOM.jsp Website of the company Hella]