{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Variant of [[hallo]].  This variant of [[hallo]] is sometimes falsely credited to [[w:Thomas Edison|Thomas Edison]], or to one of his employees, as a coinage (or as a variant of [[w:Hungarian language|Hungarian]] [[hallom]]) for telephone use.  However Edison in fact favoured "[[ahoy]]!" and '''hello''' pre-dates the invention of the telephone by over 300 years.

===Pronunciation===
*hĕ-lō', /hεˈləʊ/, /hE"l@U/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-əʊ|Rhymes: -əʊ]]
*hə-lō', /həˈləʊ/, /h@"l@U/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-əʊ|Rhymes: -əʊ]]
*{{audio|en-us-hello.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Interjection===
[[Category:English interjections]]
'''hello'''

# A greeting said when meeting someone or acknowledging someone's arrival or presence.
#: ''Hello, how are you today?''
# A greeting used when answering the [[telephone]].
#: ''Hello?''
# A call for responses if it is not clear if anyone is present or if a telephone conversation may have been disconnected.
#: ''Hello?  Is anyone there?''
# {{colloquial}} Used sarcastically to imply that the person addressed or referred to has done something the speaker or writer considers to be foolish.
#: ''You just tried to start your car with your cell phone.  Hello?''
# An expression of puzzlement.
#: ''Hello?  What's going on here.''
# (''with specific pronunciation'') Used (usually by male) to signify the arrival of an attractive female.
#: ''Hello.'' (length drawn out - 'Heeellloooo').

====Usage notes====
#The greeting ''hello'' is among the most generic and neutral in use.  It may be heard in nearly all social situations and in nearly all walks of life, and is unlikely to cause offense.
#In some languages translated word of ''hello'' is just not mere greeting but also accompanies some meaning or well wishing to opposite person. For Example in Urdu greeting ''Assalam - U - Alaikum'' means ''May peace be upon you''

==== Translations ====

'''greeting''''

{{top}}
<!--Put translations for languages from A to I here-->
*{{alb}}: [[tungjatjeta]]
*{{bos}}: [[Zdravo]], [[Ćao]]
*{{ca}}: [[hola]]
*{{zh}}:[[你好]](ni3 hao3), [[您好]](''formal'' nin2 hao3)
*{{cs}}: [[ahoj]], [[nazdar]]
*{{da}}: [[God dag]]
*{{nl}}: [[hallo]], [[hoi]]
*{{eo}}: [[saluton]]
*{{fj}}: [[bula]]
*{{fi}}: [[terve]], [[moi]], [[hei]]
*{{fr}}: [[salut]] (''informal''), [[bonjour]]
*{{de}}: [[Hallo]]
*Gilbertese: [[mauri]]
*{{is}}: [[halló]]
*{{id}}: [[hai]] 
*{{it}}: [[ciao]], [[salve#Italian|salve]], [[buongiorno]]
{{mid}}
*{{jp}}: [[こんにちは]] (''morning greeting'' konnichiwa); [[こんばんは]] (''evening greeting'' konbanwa)
*{{kk}}: сәлем, салам, сәлеметсіздер(respectable)
*{{la}}: [[salve]], [[ave]]
*{{lt}}: [[labas]], [[sveikas]] (''informal''), [[sveiki]] (''formal'')
*{{pt}}: [[oi]]
*{{ru}}: [[привет]] (''informal''), [[здравствуйте]] (''formal'')
*{{sr}}: [[Здраво]], [[Zdravo]]; [[Ћао]], [[Ćao]]
*{{scn}}: [[ciao]], [[salutamu]]
*{{es}}: [[hola]]
*{{sw}}: [[jambo]]
*{{sv}}: [[hallå]], [[hej]], [[god dag]] (''formal'')
*{{ta}}: [[vanakam]]
*{{th}}: [[สวัสดีครับ]] ''m.'' / [[สวัสดีค่ะ]] ''f.''
*{{tr}}: [[merhaba]]
*{{ua}}: [[привіт]]
*{{zu}}: [[sawubona]]
{{bottom}}

'''when answering the telephone'''

{{top}}
*{{bos}}: [[Halo]], [[Molim]]
*{{ca}}: [[digui]], [[si]], [[hola]]
*{{zh}}:[[喂]](wei2), [[您好]](''formal'' nin2 hao3)
*{{cs}}: [[haló]]
*{{nl}}: [[hallo]]
*{{fi}}: [[haloo]]
*{{fr}}: [[allô]]
*{{de}}: [[Hallo]]
*{{id}}: [[halo]]
*{{it}}: [[pronto#Italian|pronto]]
{{mid}}
*{{jp}}: [[もしもし]] (moshi-moshi)
*{{lt}}: [[alio]]
*{{pt}}: [[alô]]
*{{ru}}: [[алло]]
*{{sr}}: [[Хало]], [[Halo]]; [[Молим]], [[Molim]]
*{{es}}: [[bueno]]
*{{sv}}: [[hallå]], [[hej]], [[god dag]] (''formal'')
*{{th}}: [[ฮัลโหล]]
*{{ua}}: [[алло]]
{{bottom}}

'''is anyone there?'''

{{top}}
*{{bos}}: [[Halo?]]
*{{ca}}: [[hola?]]
*{{zh}}: [[有人吗]]?(you3 ren2 me)
*{{cs}}: [[haló]]
*{{nl}}: [[joehoe]]
*{{fi}}: [[huhuu]]?
{{mid}}
*{{de}}: [[Hallo]]?, [[Jemand da]]?
*{{it}}: [[c'è nessuno]]?
*{{lt}}: [[sveiki]]
*{{sr}}: [[Хало?]], [[Halo?]]
*{{Sv}}: [[hallå]]
{{bottom}}

'''sarcastic: that was foolish'''

{{top}}
*{{nl}}: [[ja, hallo]]!
*{{fi}}: [[haloo]]!
{{mid}}
*{{de}}: [[Hallo]]!, [[Halloho]]!
*{{sv}}: [[men hallå]]
{{bottom}}

'''expression of puzzlement'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ar}}: [[مرحبا]]
*{{arm}}: [[Բարեվ]],[[Ողջույն]] (1), [[Ալլո]](2)
*{{eu}}: [[kaixo]]
*{{bg}}: [[здравей]], [[здравейте]] (1), [[ало]] (2)
*{{ch}}: Hafa Dai
*{{hr}}: [[halo]], [[bok]]
*{{cs}}: [[ahoj]]
*{{da}}: [[hallo]], [[goddag]], [[dav]]
*{{et}}: [[tere]]
*{{fj}}: [[bula]] ([[:fj:bula|Vosa Vaka Viti]])
*Filipino: [[helo]], [[hoy]], [[kumustá]]
*{{fy}}: [[hallo]], [[hoi]]
*{{gl}}: [[hola]]
*Greek: [[γειά]]
*{{haw}}: [[aloha]]
*{{he}}: [[שלום]] (shalom)
*{{hu}}: [[szia]]
*{{is}}: [[halló]], [[kalla]], [[heilsa]]
*{{ia}}: [[salute]] (1); [[hallo]] (1,2)
*Jèrriais: [[buonjour]]
*{{ko}}: [[안녕하세요]] [安寧-] (annyeonghaseyo) (1), [[여보세요]] (yeoboseyo) (2)
*{{lo}}: Sabai di
*{{mi}}: [[kia ora]]
*{{mh}}: yokwe<!-- not wikified due to incertainty of orthography -->
*Nahuatl: [[niltze]]
*{{ne}}: namaskar
*{{no}}: [[hei]]
*{{fa}}: [[سلام]]
*{{pl}}: [[cześć]]
*{{ro}}: [[bună ziua]] (1), [[salut]] (1), [[alo]] (2) 
*{{sk}}: [[ahoj]] (1), [[servus]] (1), [[haló]] (2)
*{{sl}}: [[zdravo]]
*{{es}}: [[diga]] (2), [[aló]] (2),
*{{tl}}: [[helo]], [[hoy]]
*{{ta}}: [[வணக்கம்]] (vanakkam)
*{{tt}}: [[isänme]](sez)!, [[sälâm]]! (1), [[allo]], [[hallow]] (2)
*{{th}}: (sawaad-dii)
*{{tr}}: [[merhaba]] (1), [[alo]] (2), [[efendim]] (2)
*{{tyv}}: [[экии]] (ekii)
*{{ur}}: [[السلام علیکم]] ,[[آداب]]
*{{vi}}:
*#[[chào]] ([[ông]], [[bà#Vietnamese|bà]], [[cô#Vietnamese|cô]], [[anh#Vietnamese|anh]], [[chị]], [[em#Vietnamese|em]], [[quí vị]] &ndash; depending on subject of gratitude) (what gratitude?)
*#[[á-lô]]!
*{{vo}}: [[glidis]]

===Synonyms===
(''greeting'')
# {{AU}} {{informal}} [[g'day]] 
# {{US}} {{informal}} [[hallo]], [[hey]], [[hi]], [[howdy]]
# {{slang}} [[wassup]], [[what's up]], [[yo]]

===See also===
*[[greeting]]
*[[:Category:Greetings]]

[[Category:Greetings]]
[[Category:Phrasebook]]
[[it:hello]]
[[ja:hello]]