==English==

{{rank|whether|city|held|341|help|number|alone|body}}

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''[[helpan]]'' (class III strong verb; past tense healp, pp. holpen), from P.Gmc. *khelpanan (cf. O.N. hjalpa, O.Fris. helpa, Du. helpen, Ger. helfen), from PIE base *kelb-/*kelp- "to help" (cf. Lith. selpiu "to [[support]], help"). Sense of "serve someone with foot at table" (1688) is translated from Fr. [[servir]] "to help, [[stead]], [[avail]]," and led to helping "[[portion]] of food" (1824). Use of help as euphemism for "[[servant]]" is Amer.Eng., 1645, tied up in notions of class and race.

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-help.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Interjection===
'''help!'''
# I need [[desperate]] assistance.

====Translations====
{{Top}}
*Czech: [[pomoc]]!
*Finnish: [[apua]]!, [[auttakaa]]!
*French: [[au secours]]!, [[à l'aide]]!
*Hungarian: [[segítség!]]
*Italian: [[aiuto]]!
*Japanese: '''[[助けて]]'''!
*Lithuanian: [[gelbėkit]]!, [[padėkit]]!, [[pagalbos]]!
*Spanish: ¡[[socorro]]!, ¡[[auxilio]]!
{{Bottom}}

[[Category:Phrasebook]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}  {{uncountable}} {{countable}}
# Action given to provide [[assistance]]; [[aid]].
# {{slang}} The request of this [[assistance]].

====Translations====
{{Top}}
*Arabic: [[مساعدة]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[ajuda]]
*Chinese: [[幫]] / [[帮]] ( ''[[pinyin]]: bāng'' )
*Czech: [[pomoc]] {{f}}
*Danish: [[hjælp]]
*Dutch: [[hulp]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[helpo]]
*Estonian: [[abi]]
*Farsi: [[کمک]], [[یاری]]
*Finnish: [[ohje]], [[apu]]
*French: [[aide]] {{f}} (1)
*[[Frisian]]: help
*German: [[Hilfe]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[:el:βοήθεια|βοήθεια]] {{f}}
*Hebrew: [[ezra]] [[עזרה]]
*Icelandic: [[fulltingi]] {{n}}
{{Mid}}
*[[Ido]]: [[helpo]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[adjuta]], [[succurso]]
*Italian: [[aiuto]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[助け]] ([[たすけ]], tasuke)
*Latin: [[auxilium]] ''n''
*Lithuanian: [[pagalba]]
*[[Luxembourgish]]: [[Hëllef]] 
*Norwegian: hjelp
*Polish: [[pomoc, pomagac]]
*Portuguese: [[ajuda]] {{f}}, [[socorro]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[помощь]]
*Slovene: [[pomoč]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[ayuda]] {{f}}, [[socorro]] {{m}}, [[auxilio]] {{m}}
*Swahili: [[msaada]]
*Swedish: [[hjälp]]
*Telugu: [[సహాయము]] (sahaayamu), [[సాయము]] (saayamu)
*Turkish: [[yardım]]
*Vietnamse : [[giúp]], [[giúp đỡ]], [[trợ giúp]], [[hỗ trợ]]
{{Bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb2|'''help'''|'''[[helps]]'''|'''[[helped]]''' or (archaic) '''[[holp]]'''|'''[[helped]]''' or (archaic) '''[[holpen]]'''|'''[[helping]]'''}}
# To provide [[assistance]].
# To [[improve]] in some way.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[ajudar]]
*Dutch: [[helpen]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[helpi]]
*Estonian: [[aitama]]
*Finnish: [[auttaa]], [[opastaa]]
*French: [[aider]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[helpe]]
*German: [[helfen]] [[:de:helfen|helfen (DE)]]
*Greek: [[:el:βοηθώ|βοηθώ]], [[:el:συντρέχω|συντρέχω]]
*[[Ido]]: [[helpar]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[adjutar]], [[succurrer]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[aiutare]]
*Indonesian: [[Bantu]]
*Japanese: [[助ける]] ([[たすける]], tasukeru)
*Lithuanian: [[padėti]]
*Old English: [[helpan]]
*Portuguese: [[ajudar]], [[socorrer]]
*Persian:[[کمک کردن]],[[یاری کردن]]
*Russian: [[помогать]]
*Slovene: [[pomagati]]
*Spanish: [[ayudar]], [[socorrer]]
*Swahili: [[kusaidia]]
*Swedish: [[hjälpa]]
*Telugu: [[సహాయపడు]] (sahaayapaDu), [[సాయపడు]] (saayapaDu)
*Turkish: [[yardım etmek]]

{{bottom}}

===Synonyms===
*[[aid]]
*[[assist]]
*[[ease]]
*[[relief]]
*[[relieve]]

===See also===
*[[helper]]

[[Category:Positive words]]
[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[el:help]]
[[fr:help]]
[[ko:help]]
[[io:help]]
[[it:help]]
[[hu:help]]
[[pl:help]]
[[pt:help]]
[[fi:help]]
[[ta:help]]
[[zh:help]]