==English==

===Etymology===
A sound uttered in imitation of clearing the throat

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛm|-ɛm]]

====Interjection====
'''hem'''!
# Used to fill in the gap of a pause with a vocalized sound.

====See also====
*[[ahem]]
*[[haw]]

===Etymology===
From Middle English in turn from Old English and related to Middle High German ''[[hemmen]]'' meaning "to hem in".

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}

# The border of an article of clothing doubled back and stitched together.
# A rim or margin of something.
# Someone who is afraid of change to the point of total inaction.  (From a book by Spencer Johnson, M.D., ''Who moved my cheese'', about a character who was always against change.)

=====Translations=====
*Spanish: [[dobladillo]] {{m}}, [[bastilla]] {{f}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|hem|m|ing}}

# {{intransitive}} (''in sewing'') To make a hem.
# {{intransitive}} (''in speaking'') To make a sound like ''hem'' (usually coupled with ''"haw"'' as in "hemmed and hawwed.")
# {{transitive}}: To put hem on an article of clothing, to edge or put a border on something.
# {{transitive}}: To surround something or someone in a confining way.

===Related terms===
*[[hemmed]]
*[[hemming]]
*[[hemmer]] 

----

==Dutch==
===Personal pronoun===
'''hem'''

# ''Third-person singular, masculine, objective:'' [[him]].
#: ''Stuur dat maar naar hem.'' &mdash; Send that to him.

====Related terms====
: ''See [[Wiktionary:Dutch inflection#Pronouns|Wiktionary:Dutch inflection]]''

----
==Latin==

====Interjection====
'''hem'''
# [[eh]]?, [[well well]]! (''expressing surprise'')

===Related terms===
*[[ehem]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''hem'''

#[[home]]; one's dwelling place, as in a house or a more general geographical place; the abiding place of the affections.

===Adjective===
'''hem'''

#to one's home

===See also===
*[[hemåt]]
*[[hemma]]

----

==Turkish==
===Etymology===
From Persian
===Adverb===
'''hem'''

# [[and also]]

[[Category:Dutch personal pronouns]]
[[Category:Turkish adverbs]]
[[Category:Interjections]]
[[Category:English verbs that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:la:Interjections]]
[[Category:Swedish nouns]]

[[es:hem]]
[[fr:hem]]
[[io:hem]]
[[id:hem]]
[[it:hem]]
[[ku:hem]]
[[hu:hem]]
[[nl:hem]]
[[ja:hem]]
[[pl:hem]]
[[fi:hem]]
[[sv:hem]]
[[vi:hem]]
[[zh:hem]]