{{see|Herd}}
==English==

{{webster}}

===Etymology===
# {{OE.}} ''[[herd]]'', ''[[heord]]'', {{AS.}} ''[[heord]]''.
# {{OE.}} ''[[hirde,]] [[herde]], [[heorde]],'' {{AS.}} ''[[hirde]], [[hyrde]], [[heorde]].'' (Person who herds.)

===Pronunciation===
*hî(r)d, /hɜː(r)d/, /<tt>h3:(r)d</tt>/
*:'''Homophones''': [[heard]]
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɜː(r)d|Rhymes: -ɜː(r)d]]

===Noun===
'''herd'''  (''plural:'' '''[[herds]]''')

# A number of beasts assembled together; as, a herd of horses, oxen, cattle, camels, elephants, deer, or swine; a particular stock or family of cattle.
#: ''The lowing '''herd''' wind slowly o’er the lea.''  -Gray.
# A crowd of low people; a rabble.
#: ''But far more numerous was the '''herd''' of such Who think too little and who talk too much.'' Dryden.
#: ''You can never interest the common '''herd''' in the abstract question.'' Coleridge.
# One who herds or assembles domestic animals; a herdsman; -- much used in composition; as, a shepherd; a goatherd, and the like.

====Usage notes====
Herd is distinguished from [[flock]], as being chiefly applied to the larger animals. A number of cattle, when driven to market, is called a [[drove]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[kope]] ''f, pl''
*[[Basque]]: [[saldo]]
*[[Catalan]]: [[ramat]] ''m''
*Croatian: [[stado]] ''n'', [[krdo]] ''n''
*Czech: [[stádo]] ''n''
*Finnish: [[lauma]]
*German: [[Herde]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Greek: [[αγέλη]]
*Hebrew: [[עדר]] {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[nyáj]], [[csorda]]
*Polish: [[stado]] ''n'', [[trzoda]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[turmă]] ''f'', [[cireadă]] ''f'', [[cârd]] ''f'' and ''m''
*Slovak: [[stádo]] ''n'', [[črieda]] ''f''
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[hato]] {{m}}, [[manada]] {{f}}, [[rebaño]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To unite or associate in a herd; to feed or run together, or in company; as, sheep herd on many hills.
# To associate; to ally one's self with, or place one's self among, a group or company.
#: ''I’ll '''herd''' among his friends, and seem One of the number.'' Addison.
# To act as a herdsman or a shepherd.
# To form or put into a herd. 
#: ''I heard the herd of cattle being '''hearded''' home from a long way away.''

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[paimentaa]] (3)

===See also===
*[[drove]]
*[[gather]]
*[[muster]]
*[[round up]]<!-- also hyphenated or single word? may be a synonym -->

[[Category:English collective nouns]]

----

==Old High German==
===Etymology===
West Germanic *''[[hertha]]'', whence also Old English ''[[heorþ]]''
===Noun===
'''herd''' ''m''

# [[hearth]]

[[Category:Old High German nouns]]

[[el:herd]]
[[fr:herd]]
[[io:herd]]
[[it:herd]]
[[hu:herd]]
[[ta:herd]]
[[vi:herd]]
[[uk:herd]]
[[zh:herd]]