German word meaning literally "lord" or "master". The exact translation depends on the context. "Herr" is a standard German honorifc for males, and usually placed before the Name or title, eg. "Herr Schmidt" means simply "Mr. Schmidt", "Herr Oberst" means "Colonel". It implies politeness, but not necessarily a difference in social status. 

German speakers express politeness through the use of honorifics like "Herr" and have no need for the word "Sir", which is very common in English. A German soldier would say "Ja, Herr Oberst!" when a US soldier would say "Yes, Colonel, Sir!" or something similar. Overuse of the word "Sir" in US military movies causes German translators no end of trouble. 

"Herr" as a form of address without name or title means "master" or "my lord" in a very old fashioned sense, e.g. a way a medieval noble would be addressed by an underling. "Ja, Herr!" means "Yes, master!" or "Yes, your lordship!". On the contrary, "mein Herr" (literally "my lord") is a common modern way of addressing somebody whose name or title you do not know. "Ja, mein Herr!" means "Yes, Sir!" in a perfectly normal way. 

== Use in Religion ==

"Herr" plus the male article "der" ("Der Herr") without anything else means God, just like the English "the Lord". Bible translations in old-fashioned German sometimes refer to God as "Gott der Herr" (literally "God the lord"). "Herr" and "Gott" can be pulled together to form the word "Herrgott", which can be found in older religious texts or as an exclamation ("Herrgott!").

== Other Uses ==

Damen und Herren - Ladies and Gentlemen  

"Herr und Meister" - "Lord and Master"

The famous book "The Lord of the Rings" is called "Der Herr der Ringe" in German.

[[de:Herr]]
[[it:Herr]]
[[fi:Herr]]