==Dutch==
[[Category:Dutch articles]]
[[Category:Dutch personal pronouns]]
[[Category:Dutch indefinite pronouns]]
===Definite article===
'''het'''

# [[the]]
#: ''het boek'' &mdash; the book
#: ''het meisje'' &mdash; the girl

====Usage notes====
* Used before [[neuter]] nouns, indicating a specific person or thing instead of the general case.
* About grammatical gender in Dutch: all [[diminutive]]s are automatically neuter; therefore, ''[[meisje]]'', "girl", is neuter. However, sex takes precedence in all the pronouns. Compare ''het kopje en zijn schotel'' (the (little) cup and '''its''' saucer) with ''het meisje en haar hoed'' (the (little) girl and '''her''' hat). In many cases the possessive pronoun ''[[zijn]]'' or ''[[haar]]'' is avoided when referring to inanimate neuter nouns; instead the [[pronominal adverb]] ''[[ervan]]'' is used: ''het kopje en de schotel ervan''.

====Derived terms====
* [[aan het]]

===Personal pronoun===
'''het'''

# ''Third-person singular, neuter, subjective:'' [[it]].
#: ''Het is laat.'' &mdash; It is late.
#: ''Het klopt niet.'' &mdash; It's not right.
#: ''Het waren harde tijden.'' &mdash; They were hard times.
#: ''Het zijn vreemde mensen die zoiets doen.'' &mdash; They're weird people doing such things.
# ''Third-person singular, neuter, objective:'' [[it]].
#: ''Ik doe het later wel.'' &mdash; I'll do it later on.
#: ''Ik hoop het.'' &mdash; I hope so.
#: ''Ik doe het als jij het wilt.'' &mdash; I'll do it if you want me to.
#: ''Het meisje heeft honger, geef het een boterham.'' &mdash; The girl is hungry, give her a sandwich.

===Indefinite pronoun===
'''het'''

# [[it]]
#: ''Het regent weeral.'' &mdash; It's raining again.
#: ''Hoe gaat het?'' &mdash; How are you?
#: ''Wat geeft het?'' &mdash; What does it matter?
#: ''Hoe laat is het?'' &mdash; What time is it?
#: ''Het zij zo.'' &mdash; So be it.
#: ''Ik doe het wat rustig aan.'' &mdash; I'm taking it easy.

===See also=== 
* [[de]]
* [[een]]
* [[нет]]<!-- cyrillic homograph -->

----

==Swedish==
===Adjective===
'''het'''

#[[hot]]
## Having a high [[temperature]].
## [[Feverish]].
## (Of food) [[spicy]].
## Radioactive.
## (slang) Very physically attractive.
##: ''Den kvinnan är het!'' = ''That woman is hot!''
## Popular, in demand.

====Conjugations====
{| border=1 cellspacing=0 
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! rowspan=3 colspan=2 |
! colspan=4 width=400 | Singular
! rowspan=3 width=100 | Plural
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
! colspan=2 width=200 | Indefinite form
! colspan=2 width=200 | Definite form
|- bgcolor="#FFFFF0" align=center
| width=100 | ''Common''
| width=100 | ''Neuter''
| width=100 | ''Sexus maskuline''
| width=100 | ''Other sexus''
|- align=center
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=2 width=120 | ''Absolute''
| [[het]]
| [[hett]]
| [[hete]]
| [[heta]]
| [[heta]]
|- align=center
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" colspan=2 | ''Comparative''
| colspan=7 | [[hetare]]
|- align=center
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" rowspan=2 width=60 | ''Superlative''
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" width=60 | ''Attribute''
| colspan=2 style="background:#eeeeee" |  
| [[hetaste]]
| [[hetaste]]
| [[hetaste]]
|- align=center 
| bgcolor="#FFFFF0" width=60 | ''Predicative''
| colspan=5 | [[hetast]]
|}

===See also===
*[[нет]]<!-- cyrillic homograph -->

[[category:Swedish adjectives]]

[[de:het]]
[[es:het]]
[[fr:het]]
[[io:het]]
[[la:het]]
[[nl:het]]
[[no:het]]
[[ru:het]]
[[fi:het]]