==English==
===Etymology===
Greek: compare French ''[[hiérarchie]]''
===Pronunciation===
:[[International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: /ˈhaɪə.ɹɑː.kɪ/, /ˈhaɪɹ.ɑːɹ.kɪ/
:[[SAMPA]]: /"haI@r\A:kI/, /"haIr\=A:r\=kI/

=== Noun ===
plural: '''hierarchies'''
#dominion or authority in sacred things.
#A body of officials disposed organically in ranks and orders each subordinate to the one above it;public authority. a body of ecclesiastical rulers.
# a body of persons in [[authority]].
#A form of government administered in the church by patriarchs, metropolitans, archbishops, bishops, and, in an inferior degree, by priests. - [[Shipley?]].
#A rank or order of holy beings.
#:Standards and gonfalons . . . for distinction serve Of hierarchies, of orders, and degrees. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
#Any group of objects ranked so that every one but the topmost is subordinate to a specified one above it. The ordering relation between each object and the one above is called a "hierarchical relation" 
# a graded or ranked series from top to bottom.
#''(Music):'' "the strict nesting of elements or regions in relation to other elements or regions" (Lerdahl, 1992)

=== Translations ===
*'''Dutch''': [[hiërarchie]] ''f'', [[rangorde]] ''f''
*'''Esperanto''': [[hierarkio]], [[hierarĥio]]
*'''Finnish''': [[hierarkia]]
*'''French''': [[hiérarchie]] ''f''
*'''German''': [[Hierarchie]] ''f''
*'''Italian''': [[gerarchia]] ''f''
*'''Japanese''': [[階層]] (かいそう, kaisō), [[階層性]] (かいそうせい, kaisōsei), [[序列]] (じょれつ, joretsu)

===Source===
*Lerdahl, Fred (1992). Cognitive Constraints on Compositional Systems, ''Contemporary Music Review'' 6 (2), pp. 97-121.
[[Category:Greek derivations]]
[[fr:hierarchy]]
[[io:Hierarchy]]