==English==
===Etymology===
Arabic {{ARchar|[[هجرة]]}} (''híjra'', '[[departure]]', '[[exodus]]'), referring to Muhammad’s flight from [[Mecca]] to [[Medina]] in AD 622; from the verb {{ARchar|[[هجر]]}} (''hájara'', 'to [[emigrate]]', 'to [[abandon]]').
===Etymology 2===
From ''Urdu'': meaning hermaphrodite.
===Noun===
'''Hijra''' ''(sometimes lowercase)''

# [[Hegira]] ''(the beginning of the [[Muslim]] [[era]], equivalent to July 16, 622, by the [[Julian calendar]] of the time)''
#:''Since the Muslim lunar year contains only 354 days, the year 2005 is approximately equivalent to Hijra 1426.''
# The first day of the [[Islam|Islamic]] month of [[Muharram]].
#Calendar system used in Islam. 
#:In the Muslim calendar the year is only 354 days long, 11 days shorter than the Western calendar system. This is because of its lunar system, where every year consists of exactly 12 moon cycles. The other common name of the Muslim calendar is "'''hijra'''", referring to the fleeing of the Prophet Muhammad and his followers from Mecca to Yathrib (later Madina). The '''hijra''' calendar starts counting its days starting on July 16, 622 CE, which is the estimated date of Muhammad's flight to Yathrib.
# [[Muhammad|Muhammad’s]] departure from [[Mecca]] to avoid persecution.
#:''Library of Congress / Federal Research Division / Country Studies'': '''hijra'''  "Literally, to migrate, to sever relations, to leave one's tribe. Throughout the Muslim world, hijra refers to the migration to Medina of Muhammad and his early followers. In this sense, the word has come into European languages as [[hegira]]". http://memory.loc.gov/frd/cs/saudi_arabia/sa_glos.html   
# Any flight or journey to a better place.
# Eunich transvestite.
#:'''1995''' ''Gayatri Reddy:With Respect to Sex: Negotiating Hijra Identity in South India (Worlds of Desire: The Chicago Series on Sexuality, Gender, & Culture) ISBN: 0226707563''
::With Respect to Sex is an intimate ethnography that offers a provocative account of sexual and social difference in India. The subjects of this study are '''hijras''' or the "third sex" of India, individuals who occupy a unique, liminal space between male and female, sacred and profane. '''Hijras''' are men who sacrifice their genitalia to a goddess in return for the power to confer fertility on newlyweds and newborn children, a ritual role they are respected for, at the same time as they are stigmatized for their ambiguous sexuality. (review).
#: '''''1994''': John Irving: A Son of the Circus: Bloomsbury ISBN 0747517630 P.57.'' 
::"They are an accepted third gender in India; they are called '''hijras''' - an Urdu word of masculine gender meaning [[hermaphrodite]]. But '''hijras''' are not born hermaphrodites, they are [[emasculate]]d - hence [[eunuch]] is the truer word for them....And '''hijras''' dress as women, hence the term "eunich transvestite" comes closest to what they are.
====Alternative spellings====
*[[Hegira]]
*[[Hejira]]
*[[Hijrah]]
*[[Hidjra]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[Hidžra#Bosnian|Hidžra]] {{f}}, [[hidžra#Bosnian|hidžra]] {{f}}, [[Hidžret#Bosnian|Hidžret]] {{m}}, [[hidžret#Bosnian|hidžret]] {{m}}
*Chinese:
*:Simplified: [[伊斯兰教纪元]]
*:Traditional: [[伊斯蘭教紀元]]
*Czech: [[hidžra#Czech|hidžra]] {{f}}, [[hedžra]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[Hidjra]], [[hidjra]]
*French: [[hégire]]
*German: [[Hedschra]]
*Italian: [[egira]]
*Latin: [[Hejira]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[ヘジラ]] (hejira), [[イスラム教紀元]] (Isuramu-kyō kigen), [[逃避行]] (tōhi-gyō)
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[hidżra]] {{f}}
*Portuguese: [[hégira]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[геджра]] (gédžra) {{f}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[Хиџра#Serbian|Хиџра]] {{f}}, [[хиџра#Serbian|хиџра]] {{f}}, [[Хиџрет#Serbian|Хиџрет]] {{m}}, [[хиџрет#Serbian|хиџрет]] {{m}}
*:Latin: [[Hidžra#Serbian|Hidžra]] {{f}}, [[hidžra#Serbian|hidžra]] {{f}}, [[Hidžret#Serbian|Hidžret]] {{m}}, [[hidžret#Serbian|hidžret]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[hidžra#Slovene|hidžra]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[hégira]] {{f}}, [[héjira]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[hidjra]]
*Turkish: [[hicret]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[A.H.]]
*[[anno Hejirae]]

[[Category:Islam]]