{{wikipedia}}
==English==
===Other spellings===
*[[Hindoostanee]] (obsolete)
===Etymology===
From Hindustani [[हिन्दुस्तानी]] / {{URchar|[[ہندوستانی]]}} (hindustānī) < Persian {{FAchar|[[هند]]}} ('''hend''' = ''Hindu'' +  {{FAchar|[[ستان]]}} ('''stan''' = ''land'') (''land of the Hindus'') + adjective suffix {{FAchar|[[ی]]}}.

the term Hindustan is derived from the term Hindu (see ff.) and stān (meaning, a land). The term Hindu is derived from Sanskrit Sindhu (सिन्धु, i.e. the Indus River in particular, or any river or water-body in general). In the Rigveda, theoretically the holiest Hindu scripture, the Indo-Aryans mention their land as Sapta Sindhu (the land of the seven rivers, one of them being the Indus; sapta=seven). This corresponds to hapta-hindu in the Avesta (Vendidad: Fargard 1.18)—the holiest scriptures of the Iranian Zoroastrians. The term was used for people who lived in the Indian sub-continent around or beyond the river Sindhu.

According to Historical linguistics, Proto-Indo-Iranian sound / *s / is preserved in the Indo-Aryan languages (including Sanskrit) as / s /, but was changed to / h / in prevocalic position in the Iranian branch (including Avestan and Old Persian language). Simultaneously, the aspirated voiced dental plosive / dʰ / becomes deaspirated to unaspirated / d / in the Iranian languages; hence, the term Sindhu became the term Hindu by regular phonetic correspondence. See also Indo-European sound laws.

The Persian term was borrowed by the Ancient Greeks as Indos (for the Indus river), and India (ΙΝΔΙΑ), from which in Latin was derived the name India, Indianus. The term hindu was also loaned into Sanskrit, as hindu (हिन्दु), appearing in some early-medieval texts (e.g. Bhaviṣya Purāṇa, Kālikā Purāṇa, Rāmakośa, Hemantakavikośa and Adbhutarūpakośa). It may be noted that in Middle English as well as in French, India was/is called Inde.

From the geographic sense comes the modern (religious) term Hindu, with the meaning of being a follower of Hinduism.

===Adjective===
'''Hindustani'''
# Related to [[India]], or historically the entire Indian [[subcontinent]].
====Translations====
{{top}}
*Hindi: [[हिन्दुस्तानी]] (hindustānī)
{{mid}}
*Urdu: {{URchar|[[ہندوستانی]]}}
{{bottom}}
===Noun===
'''Hindustani''' ({{p}}: '''Hindustanis''')
# A [[person]] from India (historically the entire Indian subcontinent)
# An [[informal]] (colloquial) [[language]] made by blending of [[Hindi]] and [[Urdu]] languages.
====Translations====
{{top}}
*Hindi: [[हिन्दुस्तानी]] (hindustānī)
{{mid}}
*Urdu: {{URchar|[[ہندوستانی]]}}
{{bottom}}

===External links===
{{ethnologue|lang=Hindi|code=hin}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Urdu|code=urd}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Fijian Hindustani|code=hif}}
{{ethnologue|lang=Caribbean Hindustani|code=hns}}

[[Category:Languages]]