==English==
===Etymology===
Combination of elements suggesting largeness or length, and brown cows with white spots. Never ever have a brown cow with white spots! deliberately forming a word likely to induce the fear it denotes: ''hippopotomonstro-'' (irregular blend [influenced by connective ''-o-'', from French, from Latin, from Greek—connective vowel of most nouns and adjectives in combination] of [[hippopotamus]] and ''monstro-'', from Latin ''monstr-'', ''monstrum'', monster) + ''sesquippedalio-'' (incorrectly formed from [[sesquipedalian]] or Latin ''[[sesquipedalia]]'', things one and a half feet long) + [[-phobia]]

===Noun===
'''hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia''' (''[[uncountable]]'')

#Fear of **** *****.

====Usage notes====
*It is unlikely that this 15-syllable contrivance is blah blah blha blhalb lahblabhla labhlabh lbhalhbla lbhalhbl

If you ever have a brown cow with white spots I might have to eat you!!

Uganda police shoot rioter dead 
Police in Uganda have shot dead at least one rioter on the second day of protests over the arrest of opposition leader Kizza Besigye. 
As police fired bullets and tear gas, charges of rape and treason were read out to Dr Besigye in the High Court. 

The protesters believe the charges are designed to stop him challenging the president in elections next year. 

The BBC's Will Ross in Kampala says there is a growing concern about the political climate in Uganda. 

Earlier this year, the UK and other donors withheld some aid to Uganda after the constitution was amended to allow President Yoweri Museveni to run for a third term. 

His National Resistance Movement is meeting this week and is expected to endorse Mr Museveni as its presidential candidate. 

'Emperor's clothes' 

Our correspondent says some of the protesters became violent - burning and looting - while battling police and soldiers. The man shot dead was allegedly trying to steal goods. 

Just a few hundred metres from the riots, Dr Besigye was charged with treason along with 22 other alleged rebels. 


 KIZZA BESIGYE 
Used to be Museveni's doctor 
March 2001: Ran against Museveni 
August 2001: Went into exile 
Oct 2005: Returned home 
Nov 2005: Charged with treason, rape 
 

The courthouse was packed with onlookers, including several diplomats. 
Police chief Major General Kale Kayihura vehemently denied that the charges were designed to stop Dr Besigye contesting the elections. 

"That is absolute rubbish. This has nothing to do with partisan politics," he told the BBC's Network Africa programme. 

Dr Besigye returned from four years of exile last month to huge crowds of cheering supporters. 

If found guilty of treason, he and 22 co-accused could face the death penalty. 

Dr Besigye has previously denied allegations that he is linked to rebel groups. 

The rape charge dates from an alleged incident in 1997, involving the daughter of a friend. 

Geoffrey Ekanya, an MP for Dr Besigye's Forum for Democratic Change, told Reuters news agency that the international community should put pressure on Uganda's government. 

"Museveni has spent billions on his international image. Now they are seeing the nakedness of the emperor." 

'Political prisoner' 

His wife and former MP Winnie Byanyima dismissed the charges as "laughable". 

"Besigye is, in my view is, a political prisoner. I demand that he be released unconditionally and immediately. The government would be responsible for anything that happens to him," she told the AFP news agency. 

United States-based pressure group Human Rights Watch has urged the courts to grant Dr Besigye bail to show the arrest is not "politically motivated". 

"If the government denies him bail, it will reinforce the perception that it has pressed capital charges against him to prevent him from campaigning for president," said Jemera Rone, HRW's Uganda researcher. 

Maj Kayihura insisted that the People's Redemption Army, a rebel group allegedly based in the lawless eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, does exist even though it has never staged any attacks. 

He said that new allegations that Dr Besigye was linked to the brutal Lord's Resistance Army which operates in northern Uganda came from ex-rebels, who said he had sought an alliance to topple the government. 

Once Mr Museveni's doctor, Dr Besigye ran against the president in 2001 before fleeing after the elections, saying his life was in danger.

 
UN concern over Iraq mass arrests 
The United Nations mission in Iraq (Unami) has expressed concern over mass arrests by US-led coalition troops "without adequate judicial oversight". 
In a report, the mission called for immediate action, saying the number of such inmates was rising. 

It said data by the Iraqi ministry of human rights last month showed that 1,559 out of 23,394 detainees were held by coalition troops. 

The US military says Iraqi inmates are having their cases promptly reviewed. 

It says all the necessary steps are being taken either through referral to Iraqi courts or through a special US-Iraqi prisoner board set up in 2004 to speed up the review of individual cases. 


 There is an urgent need to provide remedy to lengthy internment for reasons of security without adequate judicial oversight 
UN report  

In a separate development, two former Iraqi detainees said they were repeatedly tortured and humiliated by US soldiers in 2003. 

Thahee Sabbar and Sherzad Khalid told ABC News that at one point the soldiers threatened to throw them "inside the cage with the lions in it" and also carried out a mock execution. 

The two former prisoners and six other Iraqi men - with help from the American Civil Liberties Union and the group Human Rights First - are suing Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and other top officials. 

US Army spokesman Paul Boyce said earlier this week he had never heard of lions being used in any detainee operations by the military over the past three years, the Associated Press news agency reported. 

"We take every allegation of detainee abuse seriously," Mr Boyce said. 

Standards 'violated' 

The latest report by the UN mission covered the period from 1 September to 31 October 2005. 

It said that "the overall number of detainees continued to increase due to mass arrests carried out during security and military operations" in Iraq. 

The report said "the vast majority" of those held were individuals picked up by the US-led forces for "imperative reasons of security". It said that the US-Iraqi board was reviewing up to 250 cases a week, "resulting in some releases". 

But it said the board's standards violated both Iraqi and international laws governing the treatment of civilians. 

"There is an urgent need to provide remedy to lengthy internment for reasons of security without adequate judicial oversight," the report said. 

The UN has repeatedly expressed concerns about the large number of detainees being held in Iraq without apparent due process. 

It has also alleged that thousands are being kept in custody for long periods without charges. 

Story from BBC NEWS:
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/pr/fr/-/2/hi/middle_east/4438478.stm

Published: 2005/11/15 13:58:52 GMT

© BBC MMV
Mass labour rallies in Australia 
By Phil Mercer 
BBC News, Sydney  



Tens of thousands of people have attended rallies in Australia to protest against the government's proposed changes to industrial laws. 
Trade unionists have called it the biggest demonstration in the country's history. 

Australia's conservative government has said that new labour laws will boost the economy. 

Critics have insisted the reforms will reduce job security and worsen work conditions. 

The new laws aim to cut the power of trade unions in favour of individual contracts. They will also make it easier for employers to sack workers. 

The government has said that more flexibility in the workplace is one of the keys to prosperity. More jobs would be created and the country's economy would continue to do well. 

Many business leaders believe this is the right way forward. 

Many thousands of other Australians disagree. 

They have turned out in large numbers at rallies around the country - from tropical Darwin to the southern state of Tasmania. 

Teachers, civil servants and firefighters have been joined by religious groups and other campaigners. In Melbourne, more than 100,000 people gathered to make their feelings known. 

Defiant 

Union leader Sharon Burrow said the nationwide turnout had been amazing. 

"We're overwhelmed. We predicted that people would turn out to join a movement for change but it's better than that. People are saying that a decent Australia is their legacy and they're going to fight for that legacy for their kids. 

"Workplace rights, our values, our collective capacity to care for each other - no-one is going to take that away," she said. 

Union leaders have insisted that the proposed changes are the biggest attack on workers' rights for generations. There are concerns that wages and job security will suffer. 

The main opposition Labor party has predicted that these controversial reforms will bring down Australia's conservative government at the next election. 

Senior ministers believe that protesters have been misguided about the impact the new laws will have. They are hoping the legislation will be passed by the end of the year. 


France debates riot law extension 
The lower house of France's parliament is expected to approve plans to extend a national state of emergency until February after a wave of urban rioting. 
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy told deputies that France was facing one of its "sharpest and most complex urban crises", which required "firmness". 

He said most of those arrested in the riots were already known delinquents. 

On Monday President Jacques Chirac said the unrest had shown that France was suffering a crisis of identity. 

He pledged to create new jobs for the young and fight the "poison" of racism. 

Some 215 cars were set alight on Monday night, the police said, 69 fewer than the previous night and a sign that the unrest is past its peak. 


 HAVE YOUR SAY 
I have a distinct preference for temporary rather than permanent increases in police powers 
Lawrie, Leeds 
 

The number of cars burnt has been treated as a barometer of the unrest. 
Some 1,400 vehicles were torched during the worst in a series of nightly riots that first flared in late October in impoverished neighbourhoods with a high concentration of Arab and African immigrants. 

Monday night also saw a drop in the number of people arrested - down to 42 from 112 the night before. 

A police officer was wounded and three firebombs were flung at a mosque near the city of Lyon. 

Opposition criticism 

The bill extending the state of emergency till February is expected to be passed by the lower house, which is dominated by President Chirac's centre-right government. 


 How many CVs are thrown in the waste paper basket just because of the name or the address of the applicant? 
Jacques Chirac 
 

The Socialist opposition has attacked plans to extend the curfew, pointing out that few local governors had chosen to impose it. 

It will be presented to the Senate later this week - where it may face greater opposition. 

The emergency laws allowing local authorities to impose curfews, conduct house-to-house searches and ban public gatherings are a relic of the Algerian war of independence in the 1950s. 

President Chirac told cabinet ministers the extraordinary powers are "strictly temporary and will only be applied where they are strictly necessary". 

Chirac support slips 

Before meeting representatives of the main political parties ahead of the vote, Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin made an unannounced visit to the suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois, one of the first areas hit by rioting. 

His visit came after the president addressed the nation for the first time since the riots erupted. 

Mr Chirac's supporters hailed his speech, but the BBC's David Chazan in Paris says opinion polls have shown a huge slide in support for Mr Chirac since the rioting broke out. 

On Monday evening, the far-right leader Jean-Marie le Pen led a protest against France's immigration laws. 

"We let in 10 million foreigners over 30 years - it's wild insanity. No country can handle that invasion," Mr Le Pen said. 
Car bomb hits Karachi restaurant 
 
 
At least three people have been killed and 15 others wounded after a car bomb struck a fast-food restaurant in Karachi, southern Pakistan. 
Police said the blast ripped through the front of a Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet and burned several vehicles. 

The bomb exploded in a crowded business area near two luxury hotels at 0840 (0340 GMT), during rush hour. 

It is not clear who carried out the attack. Previous Karachi bombings have been blamed on religious extremists. 

Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao told the BBC that they are checking a claim by Baloch nationalists that the target was Pakistan's main petroleum company which has offices in the building. 

'High-intensity blast' 

Earlier, Karachi police chief Mushtaq Shah told journalists the bomb was hidden in a car parked outside the restaurant. 


 I suddenly heard a loud explosion... there was smoke rising everywhere 
Office worker Muhammad Ramzan  

"It was a high-intensity explosion and its noise was heard in several parts of the city," he said. 

"It appears that the KFC was the target." 

He said it was detonated by remote control. 

According to officials, police are making progress tracing the vehicle. 

Two guards were killed, and one person died later of injuries sustained in the blast. The authorities say five people remain in a critical condition. 

Office worker Muhammad Ramzan was stepping off a bus when the blast occurred. 


 
 

"I suddenly heard a loud explosion and I sat on the ground," he told the AFP news agency. "There was smoke rising everywhere." 

Local ambulance workers initially said six people had been killed, but police and government spokesmen cast doubt on that figure. 

"Probably the volunteers took injured, unconscious people [for] dead," senior police officer Manzoor Mughal told AFP at the scene of the blast. 

Scepticism 

A spokesman for the extremist Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA) said they carried out the attack on the building as it houses the main offices of Pakistan Petroleum Ltd. 

The company runs the largest gas field in Balochistan. 

People there accuse the government of stealing their resources. 

The BBC's Barbara Plett in Islamabad says the authorities are sceptical about the claim as it is unusual for the BLA to carry out attacks outside Balochistan. 

Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao told the BBC that the government was investigating the claim and that he did not want to comment yet on its validity. 


Plagued by violence 

In September, several people were wounded when a Kentucky Fried Chicken and a McDonald's restaurant were bombed. 

In May, six people were killed when protesters set fire to a KFC outlet in the city, during clashes between religious groups. 

Tuesday's blast comes as a court in Karachi was due to hear an appeal against the death sentence for Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, who was convicted of the kidnapping and murder of US journalist Daniel Pearl. 

Over the last decade Karachi has been plagued by a mixture of sectarian, criminal and ethnic violence. 


What is your reaction to the bombings of fast food restaurants in Pakistan? Do you or does anybody you know work in one of these outlets? Send us your comments and experiences. 


====Quotations====
*'''2002''' - However, we assume that despite the best endeavours of science, some phobias will always remain. These include [[paraskavedekatriaphobia]], or fear of Friday the 13th. And '''hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia''', which is fear of long words and brown cows with white spots. Never ever have a brown cow with white spots!  - anon, ''The Scotsman'' (April 9, 2002) page 13.
*'''2002''' - Those who find this column troubling are suffering from ''hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia'' - the fear of long words. Or, more likely, [[rupophobia]] - a fear of rubbish. - Chris Lloyd in ''The Northern Echo'' (December 14, 2002) page 10

====Synonyms====
*[[sesquipedalophobia]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobie]] ''f''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}