==English==
===Proper noun===
'''[[Holy]] [[Spirit]]'''

#(''Christian'') One of the three parts of the [[Holy Trinity]], the others being the [[Father]] ([[God]]) and the [[Son]] ([[Jesus]]). Has superceded the term [[Holy Ghost]] in many [[Christian]] [[denomination]]s.
 Yes, the Holy Spirit in part of the Holy Trinity, but it's not of less inportents than the other two so a lot of people think. For the most part most chutches leave this part of the Holy trinity compleatly out of their services. Why? I have ask this question for years. I have not recieved an answer yet. It has to be because it's the most misunderstood of the three. If you look for it you will find that the Bible is very clear on the subject of the Holy Spitit. In Rom. 8:9 it says, "but you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the spirit of Christ ( the Holy Spirit of the Holy Trinty) He is none of his. (His, meaning God and Jesus,or son of God, the other two of the Holy Trinty.   
====Synonyms====
*[[Comforter]]
*[[Holy Ghost]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[Sveti Duh]] ''m'', [[Duh Sveti]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[圣靈]]
*Finnish: [[Pyhä Henki]]
*Hebrew: [[רוח הקדש]]
*Japanese: [[精霊様]] (せいれいさま, seireisama)
*Latin: [[spiritus sanctus|spīritus sānctus]]
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[Duch Święty]]
*Portuguese: [[Espírito Santo]]
*Serbian:
:*Cyrillic: [[Свети Дух]] ''m'', [[Дух Свети]] ''m''
:*Latin: [[Sveti Duh]] ''m'', [[Duh Sveti]] ''m''
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Christianity]]
[[zh:Holy Spirit]]