{{see|Homer}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
[[IPA]]: /'həʊmə/

===Etymology 1===
Hebrew.

====Noun====
'''homer'''
#''(measures)'' An [[ancient]] [[hebrew]] measure of [[capacity]]; about 10 or 11 [[bushel]]s
#:*'''1922''': Head up!  For every newbegotten thou shalt gather thy '''homer''' of ripe wheat. — James Joyce, ''Ulysses''

===Etymology 2===
Old Greek.

====Noun====
'''homer'''
ὁμός ` one and the same, common, joint, unite ' > Greek ὅμερος: τυφλός, Hsch.(cf. Ὅμηρος). m. ` a pledge for the maintenance of unity, a surety, a hostage ' : Old Indian sam-ará- m., sam-áraṇa- n. `fight, struggle, contention ', av. ham-arǝna-, Old pers. ham-arana- n. ` hostile encounter, fight, struggle ', av. hamara- m. (and with th- formants hamǝrǝϑa- m.) ` adversary, rival, enemy'; Hence Homer was not a bard. The Old Persian compound meant `war (of Ilion)'. Actually the main theme of the iliad is the fury of Achilles and the maintenance of unity.
For more information see http://www.geocities.com/protoillyrian/

===Etymology 2===
From [[home]].

====Noun====
'''homer''' (plural: [[homers]])
#{{baseball}} A four-base hit; a [[home run]]
#: ''The first baseman hit a '''homer''' to lead off the ninth.''
#A [[homing pigeon]]
#: ''Each of the pigeon fanciers released a '''homer''' at the same time.''

====Intransitive verb====
'''to homer''', [[homered]]

#{{baseball}} To get a four-base hit; to get a home run
#: ''The Sultan of Swat '''homered''' 714 times.''

'''to pull a homer''', to succeed despite idiocy.
#"Looks like I pulled a Homer."


===See also===
*[[single]]
*[[double]]
*[[triple]]

[[et:homer]]
[[vi:homer]]
[[zh:homer]]