==English==

{{rank|brought|woman|want|233|home|whose|words|given}}

{{rfc}}

===Etymology===
Old English [[ham#Old English|hām]], from Germanic ''*heimaz'', from [[Proto-Indo-European]] ''*tkoi-'', an o-grade variant of ''*tkei-''.  Cognate with German [[Heim]], Dutch [[heem]], and the place-name segment "-ham" ("village").

===Pronunciation===
*(''[[Received Pronunciation|UK]]'') {{AHD|hōm}}, {{IPA|/həʊm/}}, {{SAMPA|/h@Um/}}
*(''[[General American|US]]'') {{AHD|hōm}}, {{IPA|/hoʊm/}}, {{SAMPA|/hoUm/}}
*{{audio|en-us-home.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:{{IPAchar|[[Rhymes:English:-əʊm|Rhymes: -əʊm]]}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# One’s own dwelling place; the house or structure in which one lives; especially the house in which one lives with his family; the habitual abode of one’s family; also, one’s birthplace.
#:''The disciples went away again to their own '''home'''.'' —John xx. 10.
#:'''''Home''' is the sacred refuge of our life.'' —Dryden.
#:'''''Home! home!''' sweet, sweet '''home'''! There’s no place like '''home'''.'' —Payne.
# One’s native land; the place or country in which one dwells; the place where one’s ancestors dwell or dwelt.
#:''Our old '''home''' England.'' —Hawthorne.
# The place where a person was raised. Childhood or parental home. Home of one’s parents or guardian.
#:''I left '''home''' last year.''
# The abiding place of the affections, especially of the domestic affections.
#:''He entered in his house — his '''home''' no more, For without hearts there is no '''home'''.'' —Byron.
# The locality where a thing is usually found, or was first found, or where it is naturally abundant; [[habitat]]; [[seat]]; as, the home of the pine.
#:''Her eyes are '''homes''' of silent prayer.'' —Tennyson.
#:''Flandria, by plenty made the '''home''' of war.'' —Prior.
# A place of refuge and rest; an asylum; as, a home for outcasts; a home for the blind; hence, esp., the grave; the final rest; also, the native and eternal dwelling place of the soul.
#:''Man goeth to his long '''home''', and the mourners go about the streets.'' —Eccl. xii.
# In various games, the ultimate point aimed at in a progress; goal; as:
## {{Baseball}} The plate at which the batter stands. The home base.
## (''Lacrosse'') The place of a player in front of an opponent’s goal; also, the player.

====Synonyms====
*(''one’s own dwelling place''): [[tenement]], [[house]], [[dwelling]], [[abode]], [[domicile]], [[residence]]

====Translations====
'''house or structure in which someone lives'''
{{top}}
*Apache: 
**[[Chiricahua]]: [[kuugha̧]]
**[[Western Apache|Western]]: [[gowąh]]
*Bosnian: [[dom#Bosnian|dom]] {{m}}
*Catalan: [[llar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[家]] (jiā)
*Danish: [[hjem]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[koti]]
*French: [[foyer]] {{m}}, [[maison]] {{f}}
*German: [[Heim]] {{n}}
*Greek: [[σπίτι]] (spíti) {{n}}
*Hungarian: [[haza]], [[otthon]]
*Italian: [[casa]] {{f}}
*Navajo: [[hooghan]]
*Norwegian: [[heim]] {{n}}, [[hjem]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[dom]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[lar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
*Punjabi: [[ਘਰ]] (ghar)
*Romanian: [[casă]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[дом#Russian|дом]] (dom) {{m}}
*Serbian:
:Cyrillic: [[дом#Serbian|дом]] {{m}}
:Roman: [[dom#Serbian|dom]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[hogar]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[hem]] {{n}}
*Tagalog: [[bahay]], [[tahanan]]
*Telugu: [[ఇల్లు]] (illu)
*Turkish: [[ev]], [[yurt]]
*Vietnamese: [[nhà]], [[nhà cửa]], nhà [[ở]], [[chỗ]] ở; [[nơi sinh]] (birthplace)
{{bottom}}

'''someone’s native land'''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[hjemland]] {{n}}
*Estonian: [[kodumaa]], [[isamaa]]
*Finnish: [[kotimaa]], [[kotiseutu]], [[kotipesä]]
*French: [[patrie]] {{f}}
*German: [[Heimat]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[πατρίδα]] (patrída) {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[szülőföld]]
*Italian: [[patria]] {{f}}, [[paese]] {{m}}
*Norwegian: [[hjemland]]
*Portuguese: [[lar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[hemland]] {{n}}
*Vietnamese: [[quê hương]], [[tổ quốc]]
{{bottom}}

'''childhood or parental home'''
{{top}}
*Estonian: [[sünnikodu]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[lar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[дом#Russian|дом]] (dom) {{m}}
*Vietnamese: [[nhà]], [[quê hương]], [[nơi chôn]] (lit. "place of burial")
{{bottom}}

'''place of the affections'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[lar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[дом#Russian|дом]] (dom) {{m}}
*Vietnamese: [[nhà]]
{{bottom}}

'''habitat'''
{{top}}
*Italian: [[habitate]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[lar]] {{m}}
*Telugu: [[నివాసం]] (nivaasaM)
{{bottom}}

'''place of refuge or rest'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Vietnamese: [[viện]] (home for outcasts, handicapped, elderly, etc.; lit. "institution"); [[trại]] [[mồ côi]] (home for orphans)
{{bottom}}

'''goal (sports)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Vietnamese: [[đích]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Afrikaans}}: [[tuiste]]
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[llar]] {{m}}, [[casa]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[dom]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[huis]] {{n}}, [[thuis]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[hejmo]]
*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[kodu]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Heim]] {{n}} (1,6), [[Heimat]] {{f}} (2,5), [[zu Hause]] {{n}} (3,4)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[otthon]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[hemo]]
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[mal]]
*{{ttbc|Nahuatl}}: [[chantli]]
*{{ttbc|Old English}}: [[eard]] (1,2,3,4,5), [[ham#Old English|hām]] (1)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[dom]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[hogar]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[ev]], [[yurt]]
*{{ttbc|Welsh}}: [[tref]] {{f}}

'''At home'''.
:(a) At one’s own house, or lodgings.
:(b) In one’s own town or country; as, peace abroad and at home.
:(c) Prepared to receive callers.
:(d) At one’s parents’ or guardian’s home or lodgings.

{Home department}, the department of executive administration, by which the internal affairs of a country are managed. [Eng.]

{To be at home on any subject}, to be conversant, familiar or comfortable with it.

{To feel at home}, to be at one’s ease.

{To make oneself at home}, to conduct one’s self with as much freedom as if at home.

'''Leave home'''.
:(a) To go outside the home.
:(b) To move out of one’s parents’ home or the home of one’s legal guardian. To move out for autonomy.

{To prepare to leave home}, to seek autonomy.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Hungarian: [[ház]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hemma]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|hom|ing}}

# ''(usually with "in on"):'' To seek or aim for something.
#*''The missile was able to ''home'' on the target.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[наводиться]] (navodít’sja)
*Swedish: [[sikta in]], [[sikta in sig på]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''home'''  (''no'' {{compar}} ''or'' {{superl}})

# Of or pertaining to one’s dwelling or country; domestic; not foreign; as home manufactures; home comforts.
# Close; personal; pointed; as, a home thrust.

====Derived terms====
*[[home base]]: {{Baseball}}, the base at which the batsman stands and which is the last goal in making a run.
*[[home farm]]: {grounds}, etc., the farm, grounds, etc., adjacent to the residence of the owner.
*[[home lot]]: {{US}} an enclosed plot on which the owner’s home stands.
*[[home rule]]: rule or government of an appendent or dependent country, as to all local and internal legislation, by means of a governing power vested in the people within the country itself, in contradistinction to a government established by the dominant country; as, home rule in Ireland. Also used adjectively; as, home-rule members of Parliament.
*[[home ruler]]: one who favours or advocates home rule.
*[[home run]]: {{Baseball}}, a complete circuit of the bases made before the batted ball is returned to the home base.
*[[home stretch]]: {{sports}} that part of a race course between the last curve and the winning post.
*[[home thrust]]: a well directed or effective thrust; one that wounds in a vital part; hence, in controversy, a personal attack.

===Adverb===
'''home'''

# To one’s home or country; as in the phrases, go home, come home, carry home.
# Close; closely.
#:'''How '''home''' the charge reaches us, has been made out.'' —South.
#:''They come '''home''' to men’s business and bosoms.'' —Bacon.
# To the place where it belongs; to the end of a course; to the full length; as, to drive a nail home; to ram a cartridge home.
#:''Wear thy good rapier bare and put it '''home'''.'' —Shak.

====Usage notes====
Home is often used in the formation of compound words, many of which need no special definition; as, home-brewed, home-built, home-grown, etc.

====Derived terms====
*to [[bring home]]. See under [[bring]].
*to [[come home]].
*:(a) To touch or affect personally. See under [[come]].
*:(b) ''(Naut.)'' To drag toward the vessel, instead of holding firm, as the cable is shortened; — said of an anchor.
*to [[haul home the sheets of a sail]]: (Naut.), to haul the clews close to the sheave hole. —Totten.

====Translations====
'''at home''' ''(adverb)''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[hjemme]]
*Dutch: [[thuis]]
*France: [[à la maison]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[heim]], [[zu Hause]]
*Hungarian: [[otthon]]
*Russian: [[дома]] (dóma)
{{bottom}}

'''homewards''' ''(adverb)''
{{top}}
*Danish: [[hjem]], [[hjemad]]
*Dutch: [[naar huis]]
*France: [[à la maison]]
*German: [[nach Hause]]
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[abhaile]]
*Russian: [[домой]] (domój)
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[homing]]
*[[homeless]]
*[[homely]]
*[[homeowner]]
*[[homestead]]
*[[homey]], [[homy]]
*[[home away from home]]
*[[home free]]
*[[independent home]]
*[[parental home]]
*[[hometown]]

===Proverbs===
*[[There's no place like home]] 
**Russian: [[в#Russian|В]] [[гость|гостя́х]] [[хорошо|хорошо́]], [[а#Russian|а]] [[дом#Russian|до́ма]] [[хороший|лу́чше]].
*[[Home is home though never so homely/poor]] 
**French: À chaque oiseau, son nid paraît beau.
**Italian: Casa mia, casa mia, per piccina che tu sia tu mi pari una badia.
**[[Piedmontese]]: Ógni ocel sò nì l’è bel.
**Spanish: [[Casa]] mía, casa mía, por pequeña que tú seas, me pareces abadía.


----

==Catalan==
===Etymology===
Latin [[homo]]
===Noun===
'''home''' {{m}}

# [[man]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]


----

==Finnish==

===Noun===
'''home'''

#[[mildew]], [[mould]]

[[Category:fi:Botany]]

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

[[af:home]]
[[ang:home]]
[[es:home]]
[[fa:home]]
[[fr:home]]
[[ko:home]]
[[hy:home]]
[[io:home]]
[[it:home]]
[[kk:home]]
[[ku:home]]
[[hu:home]]
[[pl:home]]
[[pt:home]]
[[ru:home]]
[[simple:home]]
[[fi:home]]
[[sv:home]]
[[ta:home]]
[[vi:home]]
[[zh:home]]