{{Wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[homicida]]'' ‘man-slayer’ and ''[[homicidium]]'' ‘manslaughter’. 

===Noun===
'''homicide''' (''plural:'' '''[[homicides]]''')

# The [[kill]]ing of one person by another.
# A person who kills another person.
# ''(police jargon)'' A homicide victim; a person who has been killed by someone else.

====Translations====
*Chinese: 
*:Simplified: [[杀人]]
*:Traditional: [[殺人]]
*:Pinyin: sharen
*Finnish: [[murha]] (1), [[murhaaja]] (2)
*French: [[assasinat]], [[assasin]], homicide
*German: [[Mord]] ''m'' (1), [[Mörder]] ''m'' (2)
*Italian: [[omicidio]]
*Japanese: 
*:Kanji: [[殺人]]
*:Hiragana: さつじん
*:Romaji: satsujin
*Korean:
*:Hangul: [[치사죄]]
*:Romaja: chisajoe
*Latin: [[homicidium]] ''n''
*Russian: 
*:Cyrillic: [[человекоубийство]] 
*:Roman: chelovekoubiystvo
*Slovene: [[umor]] (1), [[morilec]] ''m'', [[morilka]] ''f'' (2)
*Spanish: [[homicidio]] ''m''

===Derived terms===
*[[homicidal]] ''adjective''

===Quotations===
* '''1996,''' A J Holt, ''Watch Me'' [http://print.google.com/print?id=AeiWDMxtf70C&pg=PA146&lpg=PA146&sig=58bpIF6WRwzfzHU-U8U9ZrEbME0]:
*: “She was a hippie kid. How hard would you work a case like that?” 
*: “As hard as anyone else,” said Goddard. There was an irritated note in his voice. “She was a '''homicide'''. She got what every '''homicide''' investigation gets.”
* '''2003:''' We don't even know the woman was a '''homicide'''. Didn't they say it was possible they both jumped?  —Ellen Perry Berkeley, ''Keith's People'' ISBN 1930859449 p. 58
* '''2004:''' The medical examiner was behind on autopsies and cranky, so we didn't even know if the old guy in the pool was a '''homicide'''. —Jon Talton, ''Dry Heat'' ISBN 0312333854 p. 40

[[Category:English nouns]]
[[fr:homicide]]
[[it:homicide]]