==English==
===Forms and variants===
*'''homo sapien'''

===Etymology===
[[Back-formation]] from '''''[[Homo sapiens]]''''' taken to be a plural.

===Noun===
'''Homo sapien''' (''plural'' '''Homo sapiens''')

#(''nonstandard'') A member of the species ''[[Homo sapiens]]''.<!--note: the species name is italicised, but the noun is not-->

====Quotations====
*'''1953,''' T. R. Schaffler, ''A Formula for the Process of Socialization,'' in ''Journal of Educational Sociology,'' Vol. 27, No. 2
*:A child possesses no human nature at birth. At this time he is only a raw '''homo sapien''' with human nature potentials, ...
*'''1982,''' Emmett Davis, ''The Ethics of Information Serving Homo Sapiens Vs. Homo Biblios,'' in ''Ethics and Reference Services''
*:In designing the institutions called libraries, we have underemphasized both the contribution each '''homo sapien''', indeed each element of creation, is offering the universe and the support that records of knowledge can provide each '''homo sapien''' during portions of their lives to maximize those contributions.
*'''2000,''' Lauretta Lueck, ''The Many Waters''
*:As we know, there were many types of hominids, and in various stages of development, but none were modern, or completely '''Homo sapien'''.
*'''2003,''' Danny Pate, ''Creation''
*:The Anatomically modern '''Homo sapien''' was merely a beast who looked exactly like Man. That’s because God used this Anatomically modern '''Homo sapien''' as a prototype in creating Adam and Eve.