==English==
===Adjective===
'''homosexual'''
# Of, relating to, or having a sexual orientation to persons of the same sex.

===Noun===
'''homosexual'''
# A person who, or, less commonly, an animal that, is homosexual; that is, attracted to others of the same sex.

====Usage note====
*Homosexual women are also known as [[lesbian]]s, a term preferred by many of them.  As ''homosexual'' applies to people of either sex, the expression ''homosexuals and lesbians'' is a [[pleonasm]] and is best replaced by ''homosexuals'' or ''lesbians'' alone as appropriate.

====Slang Terms====
Gay communities and individuals have attracted a disproportionate amount of attention. Mainly due to non-secular laws governing society (male homosexuality was illegal in The UK until the 1950's with a prison sentance attached, females - it was deemed by Queen Victoria - "[did] not do that sort of thing"!). Research now shows that homsexuality is not a "choice" as previously thought, rather there are genetic markers that lead to homosexuality. Indeed it is common across all the animal kingdom in both males and females. Homosexual activity may also lead to gender change in certain species of fish and bird (sometimes either way) and is seen as a driver in survival tactics. For example, certain wrasses (fish) of genus Thallasoma (an in particular T. Lucasanum) will produce both males and females through normal sexual activity. One male keeps a "[[harem]]" of females - the colouration and sizes of the two sexes are virtually indistinguishable to human eyes. If that harem is deprived of the male, one dominant female will start courting other members of the harem and this will result in a spontaneous (irreversible) gender change of that female to a large male with totally different colouring. The off-spring of this arrangement show no over-balanced tendancy toward homosexuality. The fact that offspring ''are'' produced from a lately single-sex harem is surely a tremendous advantage.

Slang is generally used by [[heterosexual]] (men) to [[deride]] and is often taken as an indication of insecurity - the human instinct to ostracise or even destroy that which differs. Homosexual activities in non-human species may also attract this use of slang.

In similar fashion to those in US & British black communities referring to themselves as "[[nigger]]", it is not acceptable for people outside these communities to do so - although it often happens. These slang terms are used, defiantly, within by members, as a mark of identity. A gay man may refer to himself or another as a "poof" but it would not be socially/publicly acceptable for a heterosexual man to refer to him thus. In the UK, laws exist with heavy legal penalties for discrimination of this kind. These are effectively an exstension of the racial descrimantion package and picking on someone because of their sexual tendancy is viewed in a similarly dim light.

It must be said, however, that the gay community does not come across as entirely blameless in this area though. Gay communities (or at least concentrations of individuals) often have difficulty in accepting that people can be genuinely upset by their activities and by aggravating matters, they tend to get a rough ride. Rather, integrating quietly with society, would reduce the friction between hetero/homosexuals that sometimes flares. One politician (who was vehemently opposed to a gay rally in London) was heard to utter "we all know what they get up to in their bedrooms, we just don't want it rammed down our throats" - a truly comedic moment. Sad but true, some seem driven to flaunting their sexuality publicly as if it is that which defines humans as society members. There appears to be no parallel in heterosexual society.

Thus the use of the following terms by both heterosexuals to descriminate and homosexuals to defy and identify. Many homosexual men and woman are not so insecure with themselves though, and are not offended by the lighter, more common slang words. Certainly, gay friends of this (heterosexual) author use these words to refer to themselves, but this author would not dream of doing so.

*[[male]] 
#Homo
#Queen
#Poof (N.British may use Puff)
#Shirt-lifter
#Fudge-packer
#Turd-burglar
#Chutney-ferret
#Pillow-biter
#Brown-hatter
*[[female]]
#Lesbo
#Lezzer
#Rug-muncher
#[[Todger]]-dodger

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[хомосексуалист]] ''m'', [[гей]] ''m'' <!--, [[педал]] ''m'' (highly offensive) this is not an idiomatic translation - belongs under "queer" and the like -->
*[[Chinese]]: [[同性恋]] (tóng xìng liàn)
*Dutch: [[homoseksueel]] ''m'', [[homo]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[samseksemo]]
*Finnish: [[homoseksuaali]], [[homoseksualisti]]
*French: [[homosexuel]] ''m'', [[homosexuelle]] ''f''
*German: [[Homosexueller]] ''m'', [[Homosexuelle]] ''f''
*Hungarian: [[homoszexuális]]
*Italian: [[omosessuale]]
*Latin: [[homosexualis]]
*Polish: [[homoseksualista]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[homossexual]]
*Spanish: [[homosexual]]
*Swedish: [[homosexuell]] ''c'', [[homo]] ''c''
*Arabic: [[شاذ]]

===Adjective===
'''homosexual'''
# Sexually attracted only to other members of the same sex.

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[хомосексуален]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[homoseksueel]]
*Esperanto: [[samseksema]]
*Finnish: [[homoseksuaalinen]]
*French: [[homosexuel]] ''m'', [[homosexuelle]] ''f''
*German: [[homosexuell]]
*Hungarian: [[homoszexuális]]
*Italian: [[omosessuale]] ''m'' & ''f''
*Latin: [[homosexualis]]
*Polish: [[homoseksualny]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[homossexual]]
*Swedish: [[homosexuell]]

====Synonyms====
*[[gay]]
*[[lesbian]] (''used only of women'')

====Usage notes====
*Many homosexual people prefer to be referred to by the adjective (and noun) [[gay]].
*Many female homosexuals prefer to be referred to as [[lesbian]].
*Many people now avoid using homosexual because of the emphasis this term places on sexuality. Indeed, the words gay and lesbian, which stress cultural and social matters over sex, are frequently better choices. Homosexual is most objectionable when used as a noun; here gay man and gay woman or lesbian and their plural forms are called for. It is generally unobjectionable when used adjectivally, as in a homosexual relationship, although gay, lesbian, or same-sex are also available for adjectival use.
----

==Romanian==
[[Homosexual]] (same as in english, but different pronunciation).
<!--is this the adjective or the noun?  Please format correctly.-->

[[io:Homosexual]]
[[pl:Homosexual]]
[[pt:Homosexual]]