==English==
=== Alternative spellings ===
* [[honky]] (''plural'' [[honkies]])

=== Etymology ===
African-American variant of [[hunkey]]; but, according to [http://slate.msn.com/id/2110811/ Crying Wolof:Does the word ''hip'' really hail from a West African language?] by Jesse Sheidlower, the claim that this is derived from [[Wolof]] is erroneous.

=== Noun ===
'''honkey''' (''plural'' '''honkeys''')

#(''US, pejorative'') An Eastern European, or, more generally, a white person.  From American Civil War era, Southern rebels referred to Northerners as "damn Yankees", its African-American variant carried a similiar sentiment.  


'''Hunky''' is defined in Webster's New Twentieth Century Dictionary of the English Language (unabridged). The dictionary was copyrighted in [[1951]] by the World Publishing Company. 

:Hunky - (noun -  A foreigner; a laborer. (Slang).  

'''Hunky''' is defined in Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Fifth Edition (copyrighted in [[1942]]), G. C. Merriam, publishers.  

:Hunk'y (hungk'i) -noun; plural, Hunkies (-iz). ''Slang, U.S.'' Also, Hunks (hungks). A foreign-born laborer, usually unskilled, especially a Hungarian or Yugoslav.  

'''The word is probably of Eastern European origin, not of English origin.'''  

Hunky is also an adjective meaning: "All right; in good condition; also, even; square."  

Hunky-dory is a colloquial expression meaning: "Quite to one's content; comfortably nice."  


:Excessive guesswork appears in ''Wikipedia''.  

:Contributors to ''Wikipedia'' often submit bogus materials.  Maybe their egos control their actions, I don't know.  Thousands of reference books have been printed.  '''HUNKY''' is a well-defined term that appears in dictionaries which are readily available in many libraries.  ''Do some research'' in a library prior to submitting materials to ''Wikipedia''.  Do not base your material on something that you saw on a television show such as [[The Jeffersons]].  Good grief!  

:The [[1977]] version of Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary by G. & C. Merriam Company contains information in its Preface, on page #6a.  
::''The first Merriam-Webster Collegiate appeared in [[1898]] and quickly won the esteem of student and general reader.  A second edition was published in [[1910]], and subsequent editions came out in [[1916]], [[1931]], [[1936]], [[1949]], and [[1963]].  This eighth in the series incorporates the best of the time-tested features of its predecessors and introduces new features designed to add to its usefulness.''  
:'''HUNKY''' is old enough to have been included in the [[1898]] dictionary.  The [[1942]] dictionary (cited above) was based on the [[1936]] edition, so '''HUNKY''' was certainly listed in [[1936]].  The word has nothing to do with "African Americans" (whomever THEY are) or [[The Jeffersons]].  Good grief!  



[[Category:English nouns]]