==English==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[horridus]]'' rough, bristly, savage, shaggy, rude; from ''[[horrere]]'' to [[bristle]].  See [[horrent]], [[horror]], [[ordure]]
===Adjective===
'''horrid''' (more horrid, most horrid)
# ''(Archaic):'' [[bristling]], [[rough]], [[rugged]]
#:His haughtie Helmet. '''horrid''' all with gold,//Both glorious brightnesse and great terror bredd. - [[w:Edmund Spenser|Edmund Spenser]], ''The Faerie Queen'', I-vii-31
#:'''Horrid''' with fern, and intricate with thorn. - [[w:John Dryden|John Dryden]]
#:Ye grots and caverns shagg's with '''horrid''' thorn! - [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]], ''Eloisa to Abelard'', I-20
# causing [[horror]] or [[dread]]
#:Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood,//that we the '''horrider''' may seem to those//Which chance to find us. - Shakespeare, ''Cymbeline'', IV-ii
#:I myself will be//The priest, and boldly do those '''horrid''' rites//You shake to think on. - [[w:John Fletcher (playwright)|John Fletcher]], ''Sea Voyage'', V-iv
#:Not in the legions Of '''horrid''' hell. - Shakespeare, ''Macbeth'', IV-iii
#:What say you then to fair Sir Percivale,//And of the '''horrid''' foulness that he wrought? - [[w:Alfred Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]], ''Merlin and Vivien''
# [[offensive]], [[disagreeable]], [[abominable]], [[execrable]]
#:'''1668''' My Lord Chief Justice Keeling hath laid the constable by the heels to answer it next Sessions: which is a '''horrid''' shame. - [[w:Samuel Pepys|Samuel Pepys]], ''Diary'', October 23
#:About the middle of November we began to work on our Ship's bottom, which we found very much eaten with the Worm: For this is a '''horrid''' place for Worms. - [[w:William Dampier|William Dampier]], ''Voyages'', I-362
#:Already I your tears survey,//Already hear the '''horrid''' things they say. - [[w:Alexander Pope|Alexander Pope]], ''The Rape of the Lock'', IV-108

===Usage note===
*"Horrid" and "horrible" originally had different meanings, but have become almost synonymous over the years.

===Synonyms===
*[[horrible]]
*[[frightful]]
*[[awful]]
*[[appalling]]
*[[harrowing]]
*[[dire]]
*[[revolting]]
*[[hideous]]
*[[alarming]]
*[[shocking]]
*[[dreadful]]
*[[terrific]]
*[[abominable]]

===References===
{{R:Webster 1913}}
{{R:Century 1914}}

[[fr:horrid]]
[[zh:horrid]]
[[Category:English adjectives]]