==English==

===Etymology 1===
Latin ''[[hospes]]'', "host", by way of Old French ''[[host#Old French|host]]''.

==== Noun ====
{{en-noun-reg}}
{{rfc|Is the computer [[server]] sense correct?  See [[Talk:host]].}}
#A person who allows a [[guest]], particularly into the host's home.
#: ''A good host is always considerate of the guest's needs.''
#A person or organization responsible for running an event.
#: ''Our company is host of the annual conference this year.''
#A moderator or [[master of ceremonies]] for a performance.
#: ''The host was terrible, but the acts themselves were good.''
# {{computing}} {{Internet}} {{cattag|Unix}} Any computer attached to a [[network]].
# {{computing}} {{cattag|networking}} A computer or software component that provides [[service]]s.
#: ''This machine is the host of the name server.''
#A cell or organism in which a [[virus]] replicates.
#: ''Viruses depend on the host that they infect in order to be able to reproduce''
# (''evolutionism, genetics'') An organism bearing certain genetic material.
#: ''The so-called junk DNA provides no benefit to its host.''

===== Related terms =====
*[[hostess]]
*[[hostel]]
*[[hotel]]
*[[hostname]]

==== Verb ====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|host||}}
(''transitive and intransitive'')

# To perform the role of a host.
#:* Our company will host the annual conference this year.
#:* I was terrible at hosting that show.
#:* I'll be hosting tonight.  I hope I'm not terrible.
#:* Kremvax hosts a variety of services.
# {{cattag|computing|Internet}} To run [[software]] made available to a [[remote]] user or [[process]].
#*'''1987''' May 7, Selden E. Ball, Jr., "Re:  Ethernet Terminal Concentrators", <tt>comp.protocols.tcp-ip</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:CMU/TEK TCP/IP software uses an excessive amount of cpu resources for terminal support both outbound, when accessing another system, and inbound, when the local system is '''hosting''' a session.

==== See also ====
*[[hospitality]]
*[[guest]]
*[[event]]
*[[master of ceremonies]]

===Etymology 2===
Old French ''[[host#Old French|host]], Latin [[hostis]], "foreign enemy" (as opposed to personal enemy, ''[[inimicus]]'').

====Noun====
'''host''' (''plural:'' '''hosts''')
# A multitude of people arrayed as an army; used also in religious senses, as: ''Heavenly host (of angels)''
#*'''2001''', Carlos Parada, "Hesione 2", ''Greek Mythology Link'' [http://homepage.mac.com/cparada/GML/Hesione2.html]
#*: the invading '''host''' that had sailed from Hellas in more than one thousand ships was of an unprecedented size.
# A large number of items; a large inventory.
#:* A '''host''' of parts for my Model A!

===Etymology 3===
Middle English also ''[[oist]]'', ''[[ost]]'', Old French ''[[hoiste]]'', Latin ''[[hostia]]'', "sacrificial victim".
====Noun====
'''host'''
#(''Catholicism'') the [[consecrated]] [[bread]] or [[wafer]] of the [[Eucharist]]
=====Translations=====
*German: [[Hostie]] ''f'' (1)

----

==Catalan==
===Etymology===
Latin [[hostis]]
===Noun===
'''host'''

# [[army]]

[[Category:Catalan nouns]]

----

==Czech==
===Etymology===
Common Slavic *''[[gost]]''
===Noun===
'''host'''

#[[guest]]

[[Category:Czech nouns]]
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]

[[io:host]]
[[it:host]]
[[hu:host]]
[[ru:host]]
[[zh:host]]