{{Wikipedia}}
==English==
===Etymology===
From {{D.}} variously ascribed to mean stutterer; and from ''hot en tot'' being an approximation of common sounds in the [[Khoi]] language.
First known use 1677 (in Dutch).
===Proper Noun===
'''Hottentot'''
# A member of the Khoi group of peoples.
#The Language of the Khoi remarkable for its clicks.
# Any of several fish of the species ''Pachymetopon''
* The origional Webster's Definition is amazingly crass and is included for interest. "one of a degraded and savage race of South Africa, with yellowish brown complection, high cheek bones and wooly hair growing in tufts". Webster's International Dictionary 1902.
* Lady Ann Barnard: Letters and Journals: 1798-1801 "I was told that the Hottentots were uncommonly ugly and disgusting, but I do not think them so bad. Their features are small and their cheekbones immense, but they have a kind expression and countenance."

* George Bernard Shaw: Pygmalion: 1948: "I have tried her with every sort of sound that a human being can make...Hottentot clicks, things it took me years to get hold of."

===Derived terms===
*Hottentot's Holland Range: The mountains surrounding the Western Cape.
*[[Hottentot('s) god]]: The praying mantis.
*[[Hottentot('s) fig]]: ''Mesembryanthemum edulus'' also known as sour fig.
*[[Hotentot('s) cabbage]]: Any of several species of ''Trachandra'', an edible plant.
*Obsolete: [[Hottentot apron]]. Elongated labia.
===References===
*Webster's International Dictionary 1902.
*Jean Bradford: A dictionary of South African English: Oxford 1978.
[[Category: South African English]]