==English==
{{wikipedia}}

===Etymology===
From Middle English '''h(o)us''' < Old English '''[[hus|hūs]]''' (dwelling, shelter, house) < Proto-Germanic '''[[*khusan]]''', of unknown origin.

===Pronunciation===
*''(noun)'' hous, {{IPAchar|/haʊs/}}, /haUs/
*''(verb)'' houz, {{IPAchar|/haʊz/}}, /haUz/

===Homophones====
*''(verb)'' [[hows]]

===Noun===
'''house''' (''plural:'' '''[[houses]]''')
# An abode of a human being, a place that a human built to live in.
# The archetypal structure of a human abode.
# A style or genre of [[music]].
# A complete set of numbers in bingo (in the UK).
# The usual place to find an animal or an object (the latter informally) (''the photo was put in its little house'').
# An auditorium for a theatre, or the theatre itself.
# A debating chamber for government politicians.
# An establishment—whether actual (as a pub) or virtual (as a website).
# The inner workings, as of a clock or similar.
# A dynasty, a familiar descendance, for example, a Royal House.
# ''(astrology):'' One of the twelve divisions of an astrological chart.
# An early or alternative name for the game [[bingo]].

[[Category:Astrology]]
[[Category:History]]

====Related terms====
* [[house arrest]]
* [[houseboat]]
* [[housebreaker]]
* [[housecoat]]
* [[household]]
* [[householder]]
* [[housekeeper]]
* [[housekeeping]]
* [[housemaid]]
* [[house music]]
* [[house-train]]
* [[house warming]]
* [[housewife]]
* [[house wine]]
* [[housework]]

* [[acid house]]
* [[full house]]
* [[Royal house]]
* [[housy-housy]]

====Translations====

'''abode''' (''noun'')
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[huis]]
*Arabic: [[بيت|بَيْتٌ]] (beyt) {{m}}, [[بيوت|بُيُوتٌ]] (buyút) {{p}}
*[[Azeri]]: [[ev]]
*[[Basque]]: [[etxe]]
*[[Blackfoot]]: [[naapiooyis]]
*[[Breton]]: [[ti]] {{m}}
*Bulgarian: [[къща]] (kəšta) {{f}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[casa]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[房屋]] (fángwū)
*[[Chuvash]]: {{Unicode|[[ҫурт]] / [[ҫурт|çурт]] (çurt) ''sg'', [[ҫурт|ҫуртсем]] / [[ҫурт|çуртсем]] (çurtsem) {{p}}}}
*[[Cree]]: [[wikowin]]
*Croatian: [[kuća]] {{f}}
*Czech: [[dům]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[hus]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[huis]] {{n}}
*[[Esperanto]]: [[domo]]
*Estonian: [[maja]]
*[[Faroese]]: [[hús]]
*[[Fijian]]: [[vale]]
*Finnish: [[talo]]
*French: [[maison]] {{f}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[hûs]] {{n}}
*[[Galician]]: [[casa]] {{f}}
*German: [[Haus]] [[:de:Haus|(de)]]{{n}}, [[Häuser]] {{p}}
*Greek (Ancient): {{IPAchar|[[οἶκος]]}} (oíkos) {{m}}, {{IPAchar|[[οἰκία]]}} (oikía) {{f}}
*Greek (Modern): [[σπίτι]] (spíti) {{n}}
*Hawaiian: [[hale]]
*Hebrew: [[בית]] (báyit) {{m}}, [[בתים]] (batím) {{p}}
*Hungarian: [[ház]]
*[[Ido]]: [[domo]]
*Indonesian: [[rumah]]
*Irish: [[teach]]
*Italian: [[casa#Italian|casa]] {{f}}, [[casa#Italian|case]] {{p}}
*Japanese: [[家]] ([[いえ]], ié), [[建物]] ([[たてもの]], tatémono)
{{mid}}
*Kashubian: [[dóm]]
*Korean: [[집]] (jip)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[xanî]]
*[[Lakota]]: [[tipi]]
*Latin: [[domus]] {{f}}, [[domus]] {{p}}
*[[Low Saxon]]: [[Huus]] {{n}}
*[[Luganda]]: [[nyumba]]
*[[Luiseño]]: [[kíiča]]
*Malay: [[rumah]]
*Maltese: [[bejt]]
*Norwegian: [[hus]] {{n}}
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[waakaa'igan]], [[waakaa'iganan]] {{p}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[خانه|خانِه]]}} (xāne)
*Polish: [[dom]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[casa]] {{f}}
*[[Quechua]]: [[wasi]] ''sg'', [[wasikuna]] {{p}}
*Romanian: [[casă]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[дом]] (dom) {{m}}, [[дом|дома]] (domá) {{p}}
*Serbian: [[кућа]] (kuča) {{f}}
*Slovak: [[dom]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[hiša]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[casa]] {{f}}
*Sumerian: [[é#Sumerian|é]]
*Swahili: [[nyumba]] ''sg/pl (noun 9/10)''
*Swedish: [[hus]] {{n}}, [[byggnad]] {{c}}
*[[Tagalog]]: [[bahay]]
*Thai: {{THchar|[[บ้าน]]}} (bààn)
*Turkish: [[ev]], hane
*Tuvaluan: [[fale]]
*Ukrainian: [[дім]] (dim) {{m}}
*[[Urdu]]: [[ghar]]
*Welsh: [[annedd]] ''m/f''
*Yiddish: [[hoyz]]
*[[Yup'ik]]: [[ne]], [[ena]] ''([[absolutive case|absolutive]])''
{{bottom}}

====Translations====

'''archetypal structure of a human abode''' (''noun'')
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[talo]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hus]] {{n}}, [[byggnad]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

====Translations====

'''a genre of music''' (''noun'')
{{top}}
*Finnish: house
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[house#Swedish|house]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

====Translations====

'''an establishment''' (''noun'')
{{top}}
*
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[hus]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-inf-reg-other-e|hous|e}}
# To [[keep]] within a structure or container.
#:''The car is '''housed''' in the garage.''
# To admit to residence; to [[harbor]].
# To dwell within one of the twelve astrological [[houses]].
# To contain or cover mechanical parts.

====Translations====
*French: [[garer]], [[loger]] (1); [[héberger]], [[abriter]], [[loger]] (2)
*German: [[unterbringen]], [[beherbergen]]
*Portuguese: [[armazenar]] (1); [[alojar]], [[hospedar]] (2)
*Russian: [[поселять]] / [[поселить]] (poselját’/poselít’), [[помещать]] / [[поместить]] (pomeščát’/pomestít’), [[приютить]] (prijutít’) (2)
*Spanish: [[almacenar]] (1); [[alojar]], [[hospedar]], [[albergar]] (2); [[encajar]], [[envolver]] (4)

===External links===
*[[w:House (astrology)|Wikipedia article on astrological houses]]

----
==Czech==
===Noun===
'''house''' (''genitive:'' housete) {{n}}

====Pronunciation====
{{SAMPA|/h\o_use/}}

# a baby goose, a [[gosling]]


----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''house''' {{c}}

#house, a style or genre of [[music]]

====Synonyms====
*[[housemusik]], [[house-musik]]

[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:Music]]
[[Category:sv:Music]]
[[Category:cs:Birds]]

[[ang:House]]
[[cs:house]]
[[eu:House]]
[[io:House]]
[[it:house]]
[[hu:house]]
[[ro:House]]
[[ru:House]]
[[fi:House]]
[[sv:house]]