==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-how_are_you.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Phrase===
'''[[How]] [[are]] [[you]]?'''

# {{idiom}} An informal greeting, not requiring a literal response.  Typical responses include:
#: ''I'm very well, thank you. How are you?'' (formal)
#: ''I'm fine, thank you.''
#: ''Fine, thanks.'' (informal)
#: ''Fine, and you?'' (informal)

====Usage note====
For some languages a difference is made between polite and casual forms.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[كيف حالك؟]] (''kaifa halok'')(''formal'')
*[[Basque]]: [[Zer moduz?]]
*Bosnian: [[Kako si?]] (informal/used for s. "you"), [[Kako ste?]] (formal/used for pl. "you")
*Catalan: Com estàs? Com va? (informal) Com està (formal)
*Chinese(Cantonese): [[你好嗎]]?(''nei3 ho2 ma1'')
*Chinese(Mandarin): [[你好吗]]?(informal singular ''ni3 hao3 ma''), [[您好吗]]?(formal singular ''nin2 hao3 ma'')
*Czech: [[jak se máš?]] (informal), [[jak se máte?]] (formal)
*Dutch: [[Hoe gaat het met u?]] (1), [[Hoe gaat het met jou?]] (2), [[Hoe gaat het?]] (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[Kiel vi fartas?]] (1,2)
*Estonian: [[kuidas läheb?]]
*Finnish: [[kuinka voitte?]] (1 ''formal''), [[miten menee?]] (1 ''informal'')
*French: [[Comment allez-vous?]] (1), [[Comment vas-tu?]] (2), [[Ça va?]], [[Comment ça va?]] (casual)
*[[Georgian]]: [[როგორა ხარ?]] (informal singular), [[როგორ ბრძანდებით?]](formal/used for pl.)
*German: [[Wie geht es ihnen?]] (1), [[Wie geht es dir?]] (2), [[Wie geht es?]] (1,2), [[Wie geht es euch]] (''formal singular''), [[Wie geht es Ihnen]] (''formal plural'')
*[[Gujarati]]: [[તમે કેમ છો?]] (''tame kem chho'') (formal), [[કેમ છે?]] (''kem chhe'') (casual)
{{mid}}
*[[Hindi]]: [[आप कैसे हैं?]] (''āp kaise hai.n'') (formal), [[कैसे हो?]] (''kaise ho'') (casual)
*[[Hungarian]]: [[Hogy vagy?]] (''informal''), [[Hogy érzi magát?]] (''formal'')
*Indonesian: [[apa kabar]]
*Italian: [[Come stai?]] (''informal''), [[Come sta?]] (''formal'')
*Japanese: [[お元気ですか]] (おげんきですか, ogenki desu ka)
*Latvian: [[Kā iet]]?, [[Kā klājas]]?
*Malay: [[apa khabar]]
*Pitcairnese: [[What a way you?]]
*Polish: [[Jak się masz]]?, [[Co słychać]]?
*Portuguese: [[Como está?]] (1), [[Como estás?]] (2)
*[[Punjabi]]: [[کی حال اے پا جی]]
*Russian: [[Как дела?]],[[Как поживаешь(поживаете)?]]
*Serbian: [[Како си?]], [[Kako si?]] (informal/used for s. "you"); [[Како сте?]], [[Kako ste?]] (formal/used for pl. "you")
*Spanish: [[¿Cómo está?]] (1), [[¿Cómo estás?]] ¿Qué tal? (2) 
*[[w:Swedish language|Swedish]]: [[hur är det?]] (''informal''), [[hur är läget?]] (''informal''), [[hur står det till?]]
*[[Tagalog]]: [[kumusta]]
*Telugu: [[ఎలా ఉన్నారు]] (elaa unnaaru)
*Turkish: Nasilsiniz
*[[Urdu]]: [[کیسا هے]] ,[[کیا حال هے]]
{{bottom}}

====Synonyms====
*[[how do you do?]]
*[[how's it hanging?]]
*[[how's tricks?]]
*[[what's up?]]
[[Category:Phrasebook]]
[[Category:Greetings]]
[[fr:how are you?]]