== Entry 1 ==

the outer [[cover]]ing of a [[fruit]] or [[vegetable]], may also be called a [[husk]]


== Entry 2 ==


A '''hull''' is the body or frame of a [[ship]] or [[boat]]. It is a central concept in [[water]] [[vessel]]s. The '''hull''' is essentially what keeps the water from entering the boat and acts as the walls and floor of the vessel.

Nearly all [[watercraft]], from small boats to the largest ships adhere to one general class of '''hull''' shapes that serve the needs of [[stability]] and efficient propulsion: [[horizontal]] [[cross-section]]s that have narrow, usually pointed, fronts (at the bow), smooth widening from the bow until roughly the middle (the beam), and often narrowing smoothly but usually significantly to the extreme end (the stern), whose width may range from a large to an insignificant fraction of the beam width. [[Vertical]] cross-sections perpendicular to the beam tend to be open on small boats, or flat-decked (with various [[superstructure]]s) on large boats or on ships; below that level, they may widen to some extent, but almost always narrow smoothly to either a relatively flat bottom or to an [[angle]]d [[joint]] at the center, which may feature a [[keel]] or [[rectractable]] [[centerboard]]. Nevertheless, other general shapes are [[feasible]]; the [[coracle]] is a relatively extreme example, and many [[cargo]] [[barge]]s, with all cross-sections close to rectangular, are a radical departure from both the coracle and the [[tapered]] '''hull'''s described above.

In '''hull'''s constructed from materials that are denser than water, such as [[steel]], the '''hull''' traps a [[volume]] of air that lowers the overall [[density]] of the boat providing [[buoyancy]] so that the boat floats. '''Hull'''s constructed of materials that are less dense than water, such as some types of [[wood]], may float even when full of water.

The very first '''hull''' is thought to have consisted of a hollowed out [[tree]] bole and was a [[Stone Age]] [[invention]]--in effect the first [[canoe]]. '''Hull''' construction then proceeded to keeled '''hull'''s, including [[ballast]] and on to modern double steel '''hull'''s with waterproof sections.

'''Hull''' construction is usually performed in a [[dry dock]] or on dry land. In the very latest sailing ships, '''hull'''s are often made of layers of [[foam]] and [[plastic]], forming [[composite]] '''hull'''s, with a minimum of weight. Variations on the single '''hull''' can be found with [[outrigger]]s, and craft with more than one '''hull''', called [[multihull]]s.