==English==

{{webster}} <!--previous copyvio version deleted-->

===Etymology===
{{F.}}, from {{L.}} ''[[humilis]]'' on the ground, low, from ''[[humus]]'' the earth, ground. See [[homage]], and confer [[chameleon]], [[humiliate]].

===Adjective===
'''humble'''  ({{compar}}: '''[[humbler]]''', {{superl}}: '''[[humblest]]''')

# Near the [[ground]]; not [[high]] or [[lofty]]; not [[pretentious]] or [[magnificent]]; [[unpretending]]; [[unassuming]]; as, a humble cottage.
#:''Thy '''humble''' nest built on the ground.''  -Cowley.
# Thinking lowly of one's self; claiming little for one's self; not [[proud]], [[arrogant]], or [[assuming]]; thinking one's self [[ill-deserving]] or [[unworthy]], when judged by the demands of God; [[lowly]]; [[weak]]; [[modest]].
#:''God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the '''humble'''.''  Jas. iv. 6.
#:''She should be '''humble''' who would please.''  -Prior.
#:''Without a '''humble''' imitation of the divine Author of our . . . religion we can never hope to be a happy nation.''  -Washington.

====Translations====
;Near the ground (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[vaatimaton]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Thinking lowly of one's self (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[vaatimaton]], [[nöyrä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
*[[humble plant]] (Bot.), a species of sensitive plant, of the genus Mimosa (M. sensitiva).
*to [[eat humble pie]], to endure mortification; to submit or apologize abjectly; to yield passively to insult or humilitation; -- a phrase derived from a pie made of the entrails or humbles of a deer, which was formerly served to servants and retainers at a hunting feast. 

====See also====
*[[humbles]], [[halliwell]], [[thackeray]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|humbl|ing}}

# To bring low; to reduce the power, independence, or exaltation of; to lower; to [[abase]]; to [[humilate]].
#:''Here, take this purse, thou whom the heaven's plagues have '''humbled''' to all strokes.''  -Shak.
#:''The genius which '''humbled''' six marshals of France.''  -Macaulay.
# To make humble or lowly in mind; to abase the pride or arrogance of; to reduce the self-sufficiently of; to make meek and submissive; -- often used rexlexively.
#:'''''Humble''' yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you.''  1 Pet. v. 6.

====Synonyms====
*to [[abase]]; [[lower]]; [[depress]]; [[humiliate]]; [[mortify]]; [[disgrace]]; [[degrade]].

====Translations====
;To bring low (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[nöyryyttää]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To make humble or lowly in mind (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[nöyrtyä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English adjectives]]
[[Category:English verbs]]

[[de:humble]]
[[et:humble]]
[[fr:humble]]
[[io:humble]]
[[hu:humble]]
[[ru:humble]]
[[fi:humble]]
[[ta:humble]]
[[vi:humble]]
[[zh:humble]]