Hygeia    noun, Greek mythology The goddess of health.

hygiene    noun,The science that deals with the preservation & promotion of health. 


Natural Hygiene is a philosophy and a set of principles and practices based on science, that leads to an extraordinary level of personal health and happiness. ... Natural Hygiene is for people who are looking for the good life, and not just a pretty good life, a very good life. It offers you the opportunity to live the healthiest, happiest life possible.(Health Science)
 
Hygiene is not an empirical system, nor is it experimental. It is a logical system derived from fundamental biological premises. Nevertheless, it is confirmed and supported by empiricism and experimentalism. (Alec Burton D.O. D.C. 1995)
 
The wise doctor realizes that he or she may need to take an active role and the patient a more passive role in the early stages of health restoration, but does everything possible to put the power of self care into the patients hands as soon as possible ... ... Above all is conservation of energy and identification of ways in which energy that needs to be directed towards healing is being lost. (Dr. Paul Goldberg, 99) 
 
Although the Hygienic philosophy that "health is the result of healthful living", was considered radical in its day, the world is awakening to it now. In the 1990's we seem to be on the verge of another health revolution. .. The fundamental problem we face is not that medical costs are skyrocketing. The problem is that most medical care is not health care at all; it is disease care. (R. Cridland, M.D., 1994)
 
- The underlying basis of Natural Hygiene is that the body is self-cleansing, self-healing and self-maintaining. Natural Hygiene is based on the idea that all the healing power of the universe is within the human body; that nature is always correct and can not be improved upon. We experience problems of health (i.e. excess weight, pain, stress) only when we break the natural laws of life. (H. Diamond, 1985)
 
- It is interesting that the field of Natural Hygiene has existed in this country and been utilized by thousands of people for over a century and a half, and yet very few people have even heard of it.  During my seminars I always ask the audience, how many have heard of Natural Hygiene. Less than 1 % ever raise their hands. (Diamond: Fit for Life 1985)
 
NATURAL HYGIENE holds that health is the normal state of all living organisms and that health is maintained through natural, self-initiating, self-healing process. 
NATURAL HYGIENE maintains that health is the personal responsibility of each individual, and that vibrant health is achieved only by the conscientious application of healthful living practices in all areas of one's life. (Victoria Bidwell 1991)
 

See e.g. 

http://naturalhygienesociety.org

http://orthopathy.net