==English==
===Etymology===
From Latin [[hyperbole#Latin|hyperbole]], from Greek [[ὑπερβολη]] ‘excess, exaggeration’, formed from the roots of [[ὑπερ-]] + [[βαλλειν]] ‘to throw’.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/haɪ'pɜ:bəli/}}
*{{audio|en-us-hyperbole.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|hyperbole|hyperboles}}
# ''(uncountable)'' extreme [[exaggeration]] or overstatement; especially as a [[literary]] or rhetorical device. Please, note that hyperbole is an exaggeration still likely to be real, while one that is considered impossible is called [[adynaton]].
Examplea: "I have been waiting for hours the end of your "short" coffee break." is an hyperbole while
"I have been waiting for ages the end of your "short" coffee break." is an adynaton.
# ''(countable)'' an instance or example of this technique
# ''(countable, obsolete)'' a [[hyperbola]]

====Quotations====
{{timeline|
1600s=1602|
1800s=1837 1841 1843|
1900s=1910}}
*'''1602''' — [[w:William Shakespeare|William Shakespeare]], ''[[s:Troilus and Cressida|Troilus and Cressida]] i 3''
*:...and when he speaks<br/>'Tis like a chime a-mending; with terms unsquar'd,<br/>Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd,<br/>Would seem '''hyperboles'''.
*'''1837''' — [[w:Nathaniel Hawthorne|Nathaniel Hawthorne]], ''[[s:Legends of the Province House|Legends of the Province House]]''
*:The great staircase, however, may be termed, without much '''hyperbole''', a feature of grandeur and magnificence.
*'''1841''' — [[w:James Fenimore Cooper|James Fenimore Cooper]], ''[[s:The Deerslayer|The Deerslayer]]'', ch. 28
*:"Nay - nay - good Sumach," interrupted Deerslayer, whose love of truth was too indomitable to listen to such '''hyperbole''' with patience.
*'''1843''' — [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]], ''[[s:The Gates of Somnauth|The Gates of Somnauth]]''
*:The honourable gentleman forces us to hear a good deal of this detestable rhetoric; and then he asks why, if the secretaries of the Nizam and the King of Oude use all these tropes and '''hyperboles''', Lord Ellenborough should not indulge in the same sort of eloquence?
*'''c.1910''' — [[w:Theodore Roosevelt|Theodore Roosevelt]], ''[[s:Productive Scholarship|Productive Scholarship]]''
*:Of course the hymn has come to us from somewhere else, but I do not know from where; and the average native of our village firmly believes that it is indigenous to our own soil—which it can not be, unless it deals in '''hyperbole''', for the nearest approach to a river in our neighborhood is the village pond.

====Antonyms====
* [[meiosis]]
====Derived Terms====
*[[hyperbolic]]
====Related terms====
*[[hyperbola]]

====Translations====
'''rhetorical device'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[hyperbool]]
*French: [[hyperbole#French|hyperbole]] ''f''
*German: [[Hyperbel]] ''f''
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[hyperbole#Latin|hyperbole]] ''f''
* {{ru}}: [[утрирование]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[hipérbole]] ''f''
{{bottom}}
[[Category:Latin words from Greek]]  [[Category:Greek derivations]]
----

==French==
===Etymology===
From Latin [[hyperbole#Latin|hyperbole]], from Greek [[ὑπερβολη]] ‘excess, exaggeration’, formed from the roots of [[ὑπερ-]] + [[βαλλειν]] ‘to throw’.

===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/ipɛʀbɔl/}}

===Noun===
'''hyperbole''' ''f''
# [[hyperbole#English|hyperbole]]
# [[hyperbola]]

----

==Latin==
[[Category:Latin words from Greek]]
===Etymology===
From Greek [[ὑπερβολη|ὑπερβολή]] "excess, exaggeration", formed from the roots of [[ὑπερ-]] + [[βαλλειν]] ‘to throw’.
===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/hʏˈpɛːr.bɔ.leː/}}
===Noun===
'''hyperbolē''' (''genitive'' '''[[hyperboles|hyperbolēs]]'''); {{f}}, ''[[Wiktionary Appendix:Latin first declension|first declension]] (Greek pattern)'' 

#[[exaggeration]]; [[#English|hyperbole]]

====Inflection====
{{ladecl1}} (''Greek pattern'')
{{la-decl-1st-Greek|hyperbol}}

[[fr:hyperbole]]