{{see9|A|ДҒ|ГЎ|Г |ГӨ|Гў|ГҘ|Дғ|Оұ|ВӘ}}
{{rank       |of|and|to |5|a  |in |that|I}}
{{scriptrank2|I |to |the|5|a|A|and|that|it}}
==Translingual==

===Symbol===
'''a'''
# [[atto-]], the prefix for 10<sup>-18</sup> by the [[International System of Units]].
# A [[year]] in [[SI]] Units, specifically a [[Julian year]] or exactly 365.25 days.
<!--This is hardly translingual:
# An [[are]], a unit of area of which 100 comprise a [[hectare]].-->

----

==English==
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English articles]]
===Etymology 1===
Old English [[an#Old English|ДҒn]].

====Pronunciation====
{{IPA|/Йҷ/}} ''(stressed'' {{IPAchar|/eЙӘ/}}'')''

====Indefinite article====
'''a'''
# One; any indefinite example of.
#:''There was '''a''' man here looking for you yesterday.''
#:''I've seen it happen '''a''' hundred times.''
# One certain or particular.
#:''We've received an interesting letter from '''a''' Mrs Miggins of London.''
# To, each, per.
#:''I brush my teeth twice '''a''' day.''
#:''The servants are given a bonus of six shillings '''a''' man.''

====Usage notes====
Before a vowel, [[a]] becomes [[an]].

<!--Add translations etc. on the page for 'an'-->

===Etymology 2===
Unstressed form of [[on]].

====Pronunciation====
{{IPA|/Йҷ/}}

====Preposition====
'''a'''

#''(archaic):'' In, on, at, by.
#:''A GodвҖҷs name.''
#:''Torn a pieces.''
#:''Stand a tiptoe.''
#:''A Sundays'' вҖ” Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, IV-v''. 
#:''Wit that men have now a days.'' вҖ” [[w:Chaucer|Chaucer]].
# (''archaic'') In the process of; in the act of; into; to.  ''(Used with verbal substantives in ''-ing'' which begin with a consonant.)''
#:''Jacob, when he was a dying'' вҖ” KJB, ''Hebrews 11-21''.
#:''It was a doing.'' вҖ” Shakespeare.
#''(archaic):'' Of.
#:''The name of John a Gaunt.''
#:''What time a day is it?'' вҖ” Shakespeare, ''1 Henry IV, I-ii''.
#:''ItвҖҷs six a clock.'' вҖ” Ben Jonson.

===Etymology 3===
Unstressed variant of [[have]].

====Pronunciation====
{{IPA|/Йҷ/}}

====Verb====
'''a'''

#(''archaic or slang'') Have.  ''(Now often attached to preceding auxiliary verb.)''
#:''I shoulda stayed at home last night.''

===Etymology 4===
Unstressed variant of [[ha]] вҖҳheвҖҷ, [[heo]] вҖҳsheвҖҷ, etc.

====Pronunciation====
{{IPA|/Йҷ/}}

====Pronoun====
'''a'''

#(''obsolete'') [[he|He]]; [[she]]; [[it]]; [[they]].
#:''aвҖҷ brushes his hat oвҖҷ mornings.'' вҖ” Shakespeare, ''Much Ado About Nothing, III-ii''

===Etymology 5===
Variant spelling of [[ah]].

====Pronunciation====
{{IPA|/Йҷ/, /Й‘:/}}

====Interjection====
'''a'''

# A meaningless syllable; [[ah]].
#: ''A merry heart goes all the day / Your sad tires in a mile-a'' вҖ” Shakespeare, ''The WinterвҖҷs Tale, IV-iii''
#: ''I love to sing-a / About the moon-a and the June-a and the Spring-a.'' вҖ” Avery, ''I Love to Singa''

===Etymology 6===
Abbreviations.

====Pronunciation====
{{IPA|/eЙӘ/}}

===={{abbreviation}}====
'''a'''
# [[accepted]] ''(on bills etc.)''
# [[ante]]; [[before]].
# ''(linguistics)'' [[active]]
# [[adjective]]

===See also===
{{seeCites}}
[[A]]
[[a-]]
[[an]]

===Shorthand===
* '''Gregg''' (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Centennial_Gregg_Shorthand Centennial],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Series_90_Gregg_Shorthand  Series 90],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Diamond_Jubilee_Gregg_Shorthand  DJS],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Simplified_Gregg_Shorthand Simplified],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Anniversary],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Pre-Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Pre-Anniversary]): [dot]


----

==Aragonese==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[illa]]''.
===Definite article===
'''a''' {{f}} {{s}}
#[[the]]
#:''A luenga aragonesa'' = "The Aragonese language"
[[Category:Aragonese language]]


-----
==Bosnian==
===Conjunction===
'''a'''
#[[and]]
#[[but]]
[[Category:bs:Conjunctions]]


----
==Czech==
===Conjunction===
'''a'''
#[[and]]
[[Category:Czech language]]
[[Category:Czech conjunctions]]


-----
==French==
===Verb form===
'''a'''
#(''third-person singular indicative present of [[avoir]]'') [[has]]
[[Category:French verb forms]]
===See also===
*[[Г ]]


----
==Hungarian==
===Definite article===
'''a'''
#[[the]]
====Related terms====
*[[az]]
[[Category:Hungarian articles]]


-----
==Irish==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[Йҷ]}}
===Particle===
#Vocative (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''A Dhia!'' = "O God!"
#:''A dhuine uasail'' = "Sir"
#:''Tar isteach, a SheГЎin'' = "Come in, SeГЎn"
#:''A amadГЎin!'' = "You fool!"
#Numeral (attaches ''h'' to a vowel)
#:''A haon, a dГі, a trГӯ...'' = "One, two, three..."
#:''SГ©amas a DГі'' = "James the Second"
#:''Bus a seacht'' = "The number seven bus"
#Direct relative (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''An fear a chuireann sГӯol'' = "The man who sows seed"
#:''An sГӯol a chuireann an fear'' = "The seed that the man sows"
#:''Nuair a Г©irГӯm'' = "When I rise"
#Indirect relative (triggers [[eclipsis]])
#:''An bord a bhfuil leabhar air'' = "The table on which there is a book"
#:''An fear a bhfuil a mac ag imeacht'' = "The man whose son is going away"
#[[how]], used with an abstract noun (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''A ghГ©ire a labhair sГӯ'' = "How sharply she spoke"
#:''A fheabhas atГЎ sГ©'' = "How good it is"
[[Category:Irish particles]]

===Preposition===
#[[to]], used with a verbal noun (triggers [[lenition]])
::''SГӯol a chur'' = "To sow seed"
::''Uisce a Гіl'' = "To drink water"
::''An rud atГЎ sГ© a scrГӯobh'' = "What he is writing"
::''DвҖҷГ©irigh sГ© a chaint'' = "He rose to speak"
::''TГ©igh a chodladh'' = "Go to sleep"

[[Category:Irish prepositions]]

===Pronoun===
#[[his]], [[its]] (triggers [[lenition]])
#:''A athair agus a mhГЎthair'' = "His father and mother"
#:''Chaill an t-Г©an a chleitГӯ'' = "The bird lost its feathers"
#[[her]], [[its]] (attaches ''h'' to a vowel)
#:''A hathair agus a mГЎthair'' = "Her father and mother"
#:''ThrГ©ig an chaora a eiteog'' = "The sheep left its flock"
#[[their]] (triggers [[eclipsis]])
#:''a dtithe'' = "their houses"
#:''a n-ainmneacha'' = "their names"
#[[all]] [[that]], [[whatever]]
#:''Sin a bhfuil ann'' = "That's all that is there"
#:''An bhfuair tГә a raibh uait?'' = "Did you get all that you wanted?"
#:''ГҚocfaidh mГ© as a gceannГіidh tГә'' = "I will pay for whatever you buy"

[[Category:Irish pronouns]]


------
==Italian==
===Preposition===
'''a'''

#[[in]]
#[[at]]
#[[to]]
#''Indicates the direct object, mainly to avoid confusion when it, the subject, or both are displaced.''
#:''A me non importa.'' = "It doesnвҖҷt matter to me." (literally, "To me it doesnвҖҷt matter.")

====Combined forms====
''When followed by a definite article'', '''a''' ''is combined with the article to give the following combined forms'':
<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="5">
<tr><th>A + article<th>Combined form</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[il#Italian|il]]<td align="center">[[al#Italian|al]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[lo#Italian|lo]]<td align="center">[[allo]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[l'#Italian|l']]<td align="center">[[all']]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[i#Italian|i]]<td align="center">[[ai]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[gli]]<td align="center">[[agli]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[la#Italian|la]]<td align="center">[[alla]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[le#Italian|le]]<td align="center">[[alle]]</tr>
</table>
[[Category:Italian prepositions]]

----
==Japanese==
===Romaji===
'''a''' ([[гҒӮ]])

# [[гҒӮ]]: [[hiragana]] letter ''a''
# [[гӮў]]: [[katakana]] letter ''a''

[[Category:Romaji]]


-----

==Latin==

:'''I. A, a,''' ''indeclinable noun'' sometimes joined with ''[[littera]]'', i.e., ''[[littera a]]'', the first letter of the Latin alphabet, corresponding to the a, Оұ of the other Indo-European languages: A primum est: hinc incipiam, et quae nomina ab hoc sunt, C. Ennius Lucilius apud Terent, Scaur. p. 2255 P.: sus rostro si humi A litteram impresserit, M. Tullius CiceroвҖҷs De Divinatione ad M. Brutum 1, 13, 23: ne in A quidem atque S litteras exire temere masculina Graeca nomina recto casu patiebantur, M. T. Quintilianus 1, 5, 61.
:'''II.''' The sound of the A is ''short'' or ''long'' in every part of the word; as, Дғb, pДғter, itДғ; Гў, mГўter, frustrГў. During a short period (between about 620 and 670 A.U.C. = from 134 to 84 B.C.) ''long a'' was written ''aa'', probably first by the poet Lucius Attius, in the manner of the Oscan language; so we find in Latin inscriptions: <small><small>'''AA. CETEREIS'''</small></small> (i.e., a ceteris), <small><small>'''CALAASI, FAATO, HAACE, MAARCIVM, PAAPVS, PAASTORES, VAARVS'''</small></small>; and in Greek writing, <small><small>'''ОңAAPKOY YIOОЈ MAAPKEОӣОӣOОЈ, KOINTON MAAPKION'''</small></small> (like Oscan aasas = Latin Гўra, Oscan Paapi = Latin PГўpius, Oscan Paakul = Latin PГўculus, PГўcullus, PГўcuvius, etc.), vide Friedrich Wilhelm Ritschl's ''Priscae Latinitatis Monumenta Epigraphica'', page 28 sequens, and compare Theodor Mommsen, ''Die Unteritalischen Dialekte'', page 210 sequens. (The Umbrian language has gone a step farther, and written ''long a'' by ''aha'', as Aharna, Naharcom, trahaf, etc.; compare Aufrecht and Kirchoff, ''Umbrische Sprachdenkm''. page 76 sequens) See also the letter [[E]] and [[U]].
:'''III.''' In etymological and grammatical formation of words, ''short a'' very often (sometimes also ''long a'') is changed into other vowels.
:'''A.''' ''Short a'' is changed, '''1,''' into ''long a''вҖ”
:'''a.''' In consequence of the suppression of the following consonants at the end or in the middle of the word: Дғb, ''Гў;'' vДғdis, ''vГўs;'' Дғg-Дғg-men, ''exГўmen;'' tДғg-, ''contГўmino;'' cДғd-, ''cГўsus.'' Hence also in the ''ablative singular'' of the first declension, and in the particles derived from it, in consequence of the suppression of the original ablative ending. ''-d:'' <small><small>'''PRAEDAD'''</small></small> (Col. Rostr.), ''praedГў;'' <small><small>'''SENTENTIAD'''</small></small> (S. C. de Bacch.), ''sententiГў:'' <small><small>'''EXTRAD'''</small></small> (ibidem), ''extrГў;'' <small><small>'''SVPRAD'''</small></small> (ibidem), ''suprГў.''вҖ”Hence
:'''b.''' In perfect forms: scДғb-o, ''scГўbi;'' cДғv-eo, ''cГўvi;'' fДғv-eo, ''fГўvi;'' pДғv-eo, ''pГўvi'' (for scГўbui, cДғvui, fДғvui, pДғvui).
:'''c.''' In other forms: Дғgo, ''ambГўges;'' pДғc-, pДғc-iscor, '''pГўcis''' (pГўx); sДғg-ax, ''sГўgus, sГўga;'' mДғc-er, ''mГўcero;'' fДғg- (ПҶОұОіОөО№ОҪ), ''fГўgus.'' (Contrary to analogy, ''Дғ'' remains short in dДғnunt, from dДғ-in-unt, see Friedrich Wilhelm Ritschl, ''Priscae Latinitatis Monumenta Epigraphica'', l. 1. page 17.)
:'''2.''' ''Short a'' is changed into ''Д•'' or ''ГӘ''вҖ”
:'''a.''' Into ''Д•''. (Оұ) Most frequently in the second part of compounds, particularly ''before two consonants:'' facio, ''confectus;'' jacio, ''conjectus;'' rapio, ''dereptus;'' dДғm-, damno, ''condemno;'' fДғl-, fallo, ''fefelli;'' mДғn-, mando, ''commendo;'' scando, ''ascendo;'' Дғp-, aptus, ''ineptus;'' Дғr-, ars, ''iners, sollers;'' Дғn-, annus, ''perennis;'' cДғpio, ''auceps;'' cДғput, ''triceps;'' Дғgo, ''remex;'' jДғcio, ''objex.'' And thus in Plautus, according to the best manuscripts, ''dispenno, dispessus'' from pando, ''compectus'' from compДғciscor, ''anteceptus'' from capio (on the other hand, in Vergil, according to the manuscript, ''aspargo, attractare, detractare,'' kept their ''a'' unchanged).
:(ОІ) Sometimes ''Дғ'' is changed into ''Д•'' also before ''one consonant'' (but in this case it is usually changed into ''Дӯ;'' vide infra 3.a.Оұ.): grДғdior, ''ingrД•dior;'' pДғtior, ''perpД•tior;'' pДғrio, ''repД•rio;'' pДғro, ''vitupД•ro;'' Дғp-, ''coepi'' (i.e., co-Д•pi); cДғno, ''tubicД•n, tibicД•n;'' in the reduplicated ''carcД•r'' (from carcar) ''farfД•rus'' (written also farfДғrus); and so, according to the better manuscripts, ''aequipД•ro'' from pДғro, and ''defД•tigo'' from fДғtigo.
:(Оі) In words taken from the Greek: П„О¬О»ОұОҪП„ОҝОҪ, ''talД•ntum;'' ПҶО¬О»ОұПҒОұ, ''phalД•rae;'' ПғОҜПғОұПҒОҝОҪ, ''sisД•r'' (but according to the best manuscripts, ''camДғra'' from ОәОұОјО¬ПҒОұ, not ''camДғra'').
:'''b.''' ''Short a'' is changed to Д• in some perfect forms: Дғgo, ''Д•gi;'' fДғcio, ''fД•ci;'' jДғcio, ''jД•ci;'' frag-, frango, ''frД•gi;'' cДғpio, cД•pi, and pДғg-, pango, ''pД•gi'' (together with ''pepДӯgi'' and ''panxi'', vide pango).
:'''3.''' ''Short a'' is changed to ''Дӯ''вҖ”
:'''a.''' (most frequently in the second part of compounds) (Оұ) before ''one consonant:'' Дғgo, ''abДӯgo;'' fДғcio, ''confДӯcio;'' cДғdo, ''concДӯdo;'' sДғlio, ''assДӯlio;'' rДғpio, ''abrДӯpio;'' pДғter, ''JuppДӯter'' (in Umbrian language unchanged, Jupater), ''MarspДӯter; DiespДӯter, OpДӯter;'' rДғtus, ''irrДӯtus;'' Дғmicus, ''inДӯmicus'' (but ''Дғ'' remains unchanged in ''adДғmo, impДғtiens,'' and in some compounds of a later period of Roman literature, as ''praejacio, calefacio,'' etc.).вҖ”(ОІ) Sometimes also before ''two consonants'' (where it is usually changed into ''Д•;'' vide supra, 2.Оұ.ОІ.): tДғg-, tango, ''contingo;'' pДғg-, pango, ''compingo'' (unchanged in some compounds, as ''peragro, desacro, depango, obcanto,'' etc.).
:'''b.''' ''Дғ'' is changed into ''Дӯ'' in the reduplicated perfect forms: ''cДғdo, cecДӯdi; cДғno, cecДӯni;'' tДғg-, tango, ''tetДӯgi;'' pДғg-, pango, ''pepДӯgi.''
:'''c.''' Likewise in some roots which have ''Дғ:'' pДғg, ''pignus;'' strДғg- (strangulo, ПғП„ПҒО¬ОіОіПү), ''stringo.''
:'''d.''' In words taken from the Greek: ОјО·ПҮОұОҪО®, ''machДӯna;'' ПҖОұП„О¬ОҪО·, ''patДӯna;'' ОІП…ОәО¬ОҪО·, ''bucДӯna;'' П„ПҒП…П„О¬ОҪО·, ''trutДӯna;'' ОІОұО»ОұОҪОөО№ОҝОҪ, ''balДӯneum;'' ОҡОұП„О¬ОҪОұ, ''CatДӯna;'' (written also as Catana); ОҶОәПҒО¬ОіОұПӮ, ''AgrДӯgentum.''
:'''4.''' ''Short a'' is changed into ''short'' or ''long o''.
:'''a.''' Into ''ЕҸ:'' scДғbo, ''scobs;'' pДғr, pars, ''portio;'' dДғm-, ''dЕҸmo;'' Fabii, ''FЕҸvii'' (vide Paulus Diaconus' epitome of Sextus Pompeius Festus' ''De significatu verborum,'' page 87); ОјО¬ПҒОјОұПҒОҝОҪ, ''marmЕҸr;'' Mars, redupl. Marmar, ''Marmor'' (Carm. Fratr. Arv.).
:'''b.''' Into ''Гҙ:'' dДғ-, dГҙnum, dГҙs; Дғc-, Дғcuo, Гҙcior (vide this article).
:'''5.''' ''Short a'' is changed into ''Еӯ''вҖ”
:'''a.''' In the second part of compounds, particularly before ''l, p'' and ''b:'' calco, ''inculco;'' salsus, ''insulsus;'' salto, ''exsulto;'' capio, ''occЕӯpo;'' rДғpio, ''surrupio'' and ''surruptus'' (also written surripio and surreptus); tДғberna, ''contЕӯbernium;''вҖ”before other consonants: quДғtio, ''concЕӯtio;'' as, ''decussis;'' Mars, ''MamЕӯrius, MamЕӯralia;'' and once also ''condumnari'' (Tab. Bant. lin. 8, immediately followed by ''condemnatus'', vide Leo von Klenze, ''Philologische Abhandlungen'' tabula I., and Theodor Mommsen's, ''Die Unteritalischen Dialekte'', page 149).
:'''b.''' In words of Greek origin: `О•ОәО¬ОІО·, ''HecЕӯba;'' ПғОәП…П„О¬О»О·, ''scutЕӯla;'' ОәПҒОұО№ПҖО¬О»О·, ''crapЕӯla;'' ПҖО¬ПғПғОұО»ОҝПӮ, ''pessЕӯlus;'' `О¬ПҶО»ОұПғП„ОҝОҪ, ''aplustre;'' ОёПҒОҜОұОјОІОҝПӮ, ''triumphus.''
:'''c.''' ''Дғ'' is perhaps changed into ''Еӯ'' in ulciscor, compared with alc-, `ОұО»ОӯОҫПү (arc-, arceo).
:'''B.''' ''Long a'' is sometimes changed into ''ГӘ'' or ''Гҙ''.
:'''1.''' Into ''ГӘ:'' hГўlo, ''anhГӘlo;'' fГўs-, ''fГӘstus, profГӘstus;'' nГўm, ''nГӘmpe.''
:'''2.''' Into ''Гҙ:'' gnГў-, gnГўrus, ignГўrus, ''ignГҙro''. (But in general ''long a'' remains unchanged in composition: lГўbor, ''delГўbor;'' gnГўbus, ''ignГўvus;'' fГўma, ''infГўmis.'')
:'''IV.''' Contrary to the mode of changing Greek ''Оұ'' into Latin ''e, i, o, u'' (vide supra), Latin ''a'' has sometimes taken the place of other Greek vowels in words borrowed from the Greek, as: О»ПҢОіПҮО·, ''lancea;'' ОәПҚО»О№Оҫ, ''cДғlix;'' О“ОұОҪП…ОјО®ОҙО·ПӮ, ''CatДғmД«tus''.
:'''V.''' The repugnance of the Latin language to the Greek combined vowels ОұОҝ has caused the translocation of them in ''Alumento'' for ОӣОұОҝОјОӯОҙПүОҪ (Paul. ex Fest. p. 18 MГјll.).вҖ”Greek Оұ is suppressed in ''Hercules'' from `О—ПҒОұОәО»О·ПӮ (probably in consequence of the inserted ''u;'' in late Latin we find ''Heracla'' and ''Heracula,'' cf. Ritschl, in Rhein. Mus. Neue Folge, vol. 12, p. 108).
:'''VI.''' Latin ''Дғ'' was early combined with the vowels ''i'' and ''u'', forming the diphthongs ''ai'' and ''au;'' by changing the ''i'' into ''e'', the diphthong ''ai'' soon became ''ae''. So we find in the oldest inscriptions: <small>AIDE, AIDILIS, AIQVOM, GNAIVOD, HAICE, DVELONAI, TABELAI, DATAI,</small> etc., which soon gave place to aedem, aedilis, aequom, Gnaeo, haec, Bellonae, tabellae, datae, etc. (the Col. Rostr. has <small>PRAESENTE, PRAEDAD,</small> and the S. C. de Bacch. <small>AEDEM.</small> The triphthong ''aei'', found in <small>CONQVAEISIVEI</small>(?), is very rare; Miliar. Popil. lin. 11, v. Ritschl, l. 1. p. 21). In some poets the old genetive singular of the first declension (''-ai'') is preserved, but is dissyllabic, ''ГўГ®''. So in Ennius: ''AlbГўГ® LongГўГ®, terrГўГ® frugiferГўГ®, frondosГўГ®, lunГўГ®, viГўГ®;'' in Vergil: ''aulГўГ®, aurГўГ®, aquГўГ®, pictГўГ®;'' in Ausonius: ''herГўГ®.''
:'''B.''' ''ae'' as well as ''au'' are changed into other vowels.
:'''1.''' The sound of ''ae, e,'' and ''oe'' being very similar, these vowels are often interchanged in the best manuscripts. So we find ''caerimonia'' and ''cerimonia, caepa'' and ''cГӘpa, saeculum'' and ''sГӘculum; scaena'' and ''scГӘna; caelum'' and ''coelum, haedus'' and ''hoedus, maestus'' and ''moestus; cena, coena,'' and ''caena,'' etc.
:'''2.''' In composition and reduplications ''ae'' becomes ''Г®:'' aequus, ''inГ®quus;'' quaero, ''inquГ®ro;'' laedo, ''illГ®do;'' taedet, ''pertГ®sum'' (noticed by Cicero); aestumo, ''exГ®stumo;'' caedo, ''cecГ®di, concГ®do, homicГ®da.''
:'''3.''' ''ae'' is also changed into ''Г®'' in a Latinized word of Greek origin: `О‘ПҮОұО№ПҢПӮ (`О‘ПҮОұО№''F''ПҢПӮ), ''AchГ®vus.''
:'''4.''' The diphthong ''au'' is often changed to ''Гҙ'' and ''Г»'' (the latter particularly in compounds): ''caudex, cГҙdex; Claudius, Clodius; lautus, lГҙtus; plaustrum, plГҙstrum; plaudo, plГҙdo, explГҙdo; paululum, pГҙlulum; faux, suffГҙco; si audes'' (according to Cicero or according to others, si audies), ''sГҙdes'', etc.; ''claudo, inclГ»do; causa, accГ»so.'' Hence in some words a regular gradation of ''au, o, u'' is found: ''claudo, clГҙdicare, clГ»do; raudus, rГҙdus, rГ»dus; caupo, cГҙpa, cГ»pa; naugae, nГҙgae'' (both forms in the manuscripts of Plautus), ''nГ»gae; fraustra, frode, frude'' (in manuscripts of Vergil); cf. Ritschl, in Wintercatalog 1854-55, and O. Ribbeck, in Jahn's Neue Jahrb. vol. 77, p. 181 sq.вҖ”The change of ''au'' into ''oe'' and ''e'' appears only in audio, (oboedio) ''obГӘdio.''
:'''5.''' ''Au'' sometimes takes the place of ''av-: faveo, fautum, favitor, fautor; navis, navita, nauta;'' avis, ''auceps, auspex.'' So Latin ''aut'' corresponds to Sanscrit ''ave'' (whence ''-vГў'', Latin ''-ve''), Osc. ''avti,'' Umbr. ''ute, ote;'' and so the Latin preposition ''ab,'' through ''av,'' becomes ''au'' in the words ''aufero'' and ''aufugio'' (prop. av-fero, av-fugio, for ab-fero, ab-fugio). Vide the article ab ''init''.
:'''VII.''' In primitive roots, which have their kindred forms in the sister-languages of the Latin, the original ''a'', still found in the Sanscrit, is in Latin either preserved or more frequently changed into other vowels.
:'''A.''' ''Original a'' preserved: Sanscrit ''mГўtri'', Latin mГўter; Sanscrit ''bhrГўtri'', Latin frГўter; Sanscrit ''nГўsГў,'' Latin nГўsus and nГўris; Sanscrit ''ap'', Latin aqua; Sanscrit ''apa,'' Latin ab; Sanscrit ''nГўma,'' Latin nДғm; Sanscrit ''catur'', Latin, quattuor (in Greek changed: П„ОӯП„П„ОұПҒОөПӮ); Sanscrit ''capГ»la'', Latin cДғput (in Greek changed: ОәОөПҶОұО»О®, etc.).
:'''B.''' ''Original a'' is changed into other Latin vowelsвҖ”
:'''1.''' Into ''e'': Sanscrit ''ad'', Latin ed (Д•do); Sanscrit ''as'', Latin es (esse); Sanscrit ''pat'', Latin pet (peto); Sanscrit ''pГўd,'' Latin pД•d (pГӘs); Sanscrit ''dant'', Latin dent (dens); Sanscrit ''gan,'' Latin gen (gigno); Sanscrit ''mГў'', Latin mГӘ-tior; Sanscrit ''saptan'', Latin septem; Sanscrit ''daЕӣan'', Latin decem; Sanscrit ''Еӣata'', Latin centum; Sanscrit ''aham'', Latin Д•go; Sanscrit ''pГўra'', Latin per; Sanscrit ''paЕӣu'', Latin pД•cus; Sanscrit asva'', Latin Д•quus, etc.
:'''2.''' Into ''i'': Sanscrit ''an-'', ''a-'' (neg. part.), Latin in-; Sanscrit ''ana'' (prep.), Latin in; Sanscrit ''antar'', Latin inter; Sanscrit ''abhara'', Latin imber; Sanscrit ''panca'', Latin quinque, etc.
:'''3.''' Into ''o'': Sanscrit ''avi'', Latin ЕҸvi (ovis); Sanscrit ''vac'', Latin vЕҸc (voco); Sanscrit ''pra,'' Latin pro; Sanscrit ''pГў'', Latin po (pГҙtum); Sanscrit ''nГўma'', Latin nГҙmen; Sanscrit ''api,'' Latin ЕҸb; Sanscrit ''navan'', Latin nЕҸvem; Sanscrit ''nava'', Latin nЕҸvus, etc.
:'''4.''' Into ''u'': Sanscrit ''marmara,'' Latin murmur.
:'''5.''' Into ''ai, ae:'' Sanscrit ''prati'', Latin (prai) prae; Sanscrit ''ЕӣaЕӣpa,'' Latin caespes.
:'''6.''' Into ''different vowels'' in the different derivatives: Sanscrit ''mГў'', Latin mГӘ-tior, mЕҸdus; Sanscrit ''prac'', Latin prД•cor, prЕҸcus; Sanscrit ''vah'', Latin vД•ho, via.
:'''C.''' Sometimes the Latin has preserved the original ''a'', while even the Sanscrit has changed it: Latin pa-, pater, Sanscrit. ''pГў'', ''pitri.''
:'''2.''' As an abbreviation A. usually denotes the praenomen ''Aulus;'' A. A.=''Auli duo'', Inscriptiones Orelli 1530 (but A.A.=Aquae Aponi, ''the modern Abano'', ibidem 1643 sequens; 2620; 3011). The three directors of the mint were designated by <small>III. VIRI A. A. A. F. F.</small> (i.e., auro, argento, aeri flando, feriundo), ibidem 569; 2242; 2379; 3134 alia; so also A. A. A., ibidem 3441 (compare Cicero's Epistulae ad Familiares 7, 13 ''at the end'', and see the article [[Triumviri]]); A. D. A. ''agris dandis adsignandis,'' and A. I. A. ''agris judicandis adsignandis;'' A. O. ''amico optimo;'' A. P. ''a populo'' or ''aediliciae potestatis;'' A. P. R. ''aerario populi Romani.''вҖ”Upon the voting tablets in judicial trials A. denotes ''absolvo''; hence A. is called ''littera salutaris,'' Cicero's Miles Gloriosus 6, 15; vide [[littera]]. In the Roman Comitia A. (=''antiquo'') denoted the rejection of the point in question; see [[antiquo]]. In Cicero's Tusculan Disputations (Tusculanae Disputationes) the A. designated one of the disputants=''adulescens'' or ''auditor'', opposed to M. for ''magister'' or ''Marcus'' (Cicero); but it is to be remarked that the letters A and M do not occur in the best manuscripts of this treatise; refer to the editions ad CiceroвҖҷs Tusculanae Disputationes 1, 5, 9.вҖ”In dates A. D.=''ante diem;'' vide [[ante]]; A. U. C.=''anno urbis conditae;'' A. P. R. C. ''anno post Romam conditam.''
:'''3.a.''' ''preposition''=ab, see [[ab]].
:'''4.ДҒ.''' ''interjection''=ah, see [[ah]].

::<small><small>'''REFERENCE: Lewis and ShortвҖҷs ''Latin Dictionary'', Oxford, 1879.'''</small></small>

===Preposition===
'''a''' (''also '''[[ab]]''')
#[[of]], [[from]]
#:"Thomas a Becket"

====Usage note====
Takes object in [[ablative]] case.

===Abbreviation===
#a (''[[annus]]'', year)
#a (''[[ante]]'', before)
#[[Aulus]] (a name)
#[[absolvo]], "I free," "I acquit"
#[[antiquo]], "I leave in its former state," "I reject"

[[Category:Latin language]]


----

==Novial==
===Preposition===
'''a'''
#[[to]]
====Combined forms====
''When followed by the definite article, '''li''', '''a''' may optionally be combined with the article to give '''al'''. ''
[[Category:Novial language]]


-----
==Old English==
===Etymology===
Germanic ''*aiwi-'', from Indo-European ''*aiw-'' вҖҳvitalityвҖҷ: cognate with Old Saxon [[eo]], Old High German [[io]], [[eo]] (German [[je]]), Old Norse [[ei]], [[ey]] (English [[aye]]), Gothic [[рҗҢ°рҗҢ№рҗҚ…рҗҚғ]] вҖҳage, eternityвҖҷ.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/a:/}}

===Adverb===
{{Unicode|'''ДҒ'''}}
#[[ever]], [[always]]

[[Category:Old English adverbs]]


----

==Portuguese==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[illa]]''

===Definite article===
'''a''' ''f/sg''

#[[the]]
#:''LГЎ vem a chuva.'' = "Here comes the rain."
<table border="1">
<tr><th></th><th>masculine</th><th>feminine</th></tr>
<tr><th>singular</th><td>[[o]]</td><td>a</td></tr>
<tr><th>plural</th><td>[[os]]</td><td>[[as]]</td></tr>
</table>

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[ad]]''

===Preposition===
'''a'''
:Synonym = [[para]]: [[to]], [[for]]

#[[to]]
#:''Vamos a Paris!'' = "LetвҖҷs go to Paris!"
::# ''' a [[vocГӘ]]  ''' = to [[you]] (***)
::# '''a [[onze]] [[milha]]s''' = [[eleven]] [[mile]]s [[away]] (*.*)
::# '''a [[vinte]] [[metro]]s''' = [[twenty]] [[meter]]s away (*.*)
::# ''' a [[mim]]  ''' = to [[me]] (***)
::# ''' a [[ti]]  ''' = to [[you]] (***)
::# ''' a [[ele]]  ''' = to [[him]] (***)
::# ''' a [[ela]]  ''' = to [[her]] (***)
::# ''' a [[nГіs]] ''' = to [[us]] (***)
::# ''' a [[vГіs]] ''' = to [[you]] (***)
::# ''' a [[eles]]  ''' = to [[them]] (***)
::# ''' a [[elas]] ''' = to [[them]] (***)
::# '''a [[distГўncia]]''' = at a [[distance]] (*.*)
::# '''a [[cavalo]]''' = on [[horseback]] (*.*)
::# '''a [[convite]] de = at the [[invitation]] of (***)
::# ''' uma viagem a Paris ''' = a trip to Paris  (*.*)
:# ''' [[fazer]] uma ''visita a'' um [[lugar]] (ou [[pessoa]]) ''' = to [[pay]] a ''visit to'' [[some]] [[place]] (or [[person]])  (***)
:::# '''Meu [[coraГ§ГЈo]] pertence a vocГӘ.''' = '''My [[heart]] [[belong]]s to you.''' 

#[[at]]
#:''Onde vai ele a esta hora da noite'' = "Where is he going at this time of night?"
#''Indicates the direct object, mainly to avoid confusion when it, the subject, or both are displaced.''
#:''A mim ele nГЈo engana.'' = "He doesnвҖҷt deceive me." (literally, "To me he doesnвҖҷt deceive.")

====Combined forms====
''When followed by a definite article'', '''a''' ''is combined with the article to give the following combined forms'':
<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="5">
<tr><th>A + article<th>Combined form</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[o#Portuguese|o]]<td align="center">[[ao]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[os#Portuguese|os]]<td align="center">[[aos]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + a<td align="center">[[Г ]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[as#Portuguese|as]]<td align="center">[[Г s]]</tr>
</table>

===Personal pronoun===
# (''3rd person'' ''f/sg'') [[Her]], [[it]] (as a direct object; as an indirect object, see [[lhe]]; after prepositions, see [[ela]]).
#:''Encontrei-a na rua.'' = "I met her/it on the street."

====Usage notes====
*Becomes -[[la]] after verb forms ending in ''-r, -s'', or ''-z'', the pronouns [[nos]] and [[vos]], and the adverb [[eis]]; the final letter causing the change disappears.
*:After [[ver]]: ''Posso vГӘ-la?'' = "May I see her/it?"
*:After [[por|pГҙs]]: ''Quero pГҙ-la ali.'' = "I want to put her/it there."
*:After [[fazer|fiz]]: ''Fi-la ficar contente.'' = "I made her/it happy."
*:After [[nos]]: ''Deu-no-la relutantemente.'' = "He gave her/it to us reluctantly."
*:After [[eis]]: ''Ei-la!'' = "Behold her/it!"
*Becomes -[[na]] after a nasal diphthong: ''-ГЈo, -am'' [ЙҗМғwМғ], ''-Гөe'' [Гөj], ''-em, -ГӘm'' [бәҪj].
*:''DetГӘm-na como prisioneira.'' = "They detain her/it as a prisoner."
*In Brazil it is being abandoned in favor of the nominative form [[ela]].
*:''Eu a vi.'' вҶ’ ''Eu vi ela.'' = "I saw her/it."

===See also===
*[[em]]
*[[para]]

[[Category:Portuguese language]]


-----
==Romanian==
===Etymology===
From the Latin ''[[ad]]''

===Preposition===
'''a'''
#[[to]]
[[Category:Romanian prepositions]]
[[Category:Romanian words inherited from Latin]]


----
==Serbian==
===Conjunction===
'''a'''
#[[and]]
#[[but]]
====See also====
*[[Р°#Serbian|Р°]]
[[Category:sr:Conjunctions]]


-----
==Slovak==
===Conjunction===
'''a'''
#[[and]]
[[Category:Slovak language]]


-----
==Spanish==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[ad]]''
===Pronunciation===
*/a/, /<tt>a</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-a|Rhymes: -a]]

===Preposition===
'''a'''

#[[to]]
#[[by]]
#[[at]]
#''Used before words referring to people, pets, or personified objects or places that function as direct objects. This ''[[personal a]]'' is not translated in English; for example:'' "Lo busca '''a''' Usted" = "He is looking for you."

====Alternative spellings====
*[[ГЎ]] (''obsolete'')

===See also===
*[[w:Spanish prepositions#a|Wikipedia article covering "personal a"]]

[[am:a]]
[[ar:a]]
[[zh-min-nan:a]]
[[bs:a]]
[[ca:a]]
[[cs:a]]
[[cy:a]]
[[da:a]]
[[de:a]]
[[et:a]]
[[el:a]]
[[es:a]]
[[eu:a]]
[[fr:a]]
[[gl:a]]
[[ko:a]]
[[hr:a]]
[[io:a]]
[[id:a]]
[[ia:a]]
[[ie:a]]
[[it:a]]
[[ku:a]]
[[hu:a]]
[[ms:a]]
[[nl:a]]
[[ja:a]]
[[no:a]]
[[pl:a]]
[[ru:a]]
[[st:a]]
[[sq:a]]
[[scn:a]]
[[sk:a]]
[[sl:a]]
[[fi:a]]
[[sv:a]]
[[ta:a]]
[[th:a]]
[[tr:a]]
[[vo:a]]
[[zh:a]]