== English ==

===Noun===

====Pronunciation====

Named /e&#618;/, /eI/ in the English, and most commonly /&#593;&#720;/, /A:/ in other languages.  The current pronunciation is a comparatively modern sound, and has taken the place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, was similar to that in other languages.

====Definitions====
# The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets. The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter, etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from the Greek Alpha (&Alpha; &alpha), of the same form; and this was made from the first letter of the Phoenician alphabet, the equivalent of the Hebrew Aleph (&#8501), and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent their vowel Alpha with the a sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no vowel symbols. (''See [[appendix:English alphabet]]'')
#The name of the sixth tone (also known as [[lah]]) in the model major scale (that in C), or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the scale in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A in the treble staff. -- A sharp (A&#9839;) is the name of a musical tone intermediate between A and B. -- A flat (A&#9837;) is the name of a tone intermediate between A and G.
#A [[blood type]] that has a specific antigen that aggravates the immune response in people with type [[B]] antigen in their blood.  They can receive blood from type A or type [[O]], but cannot receive blood from [[AB]] or [[B]].
#:'''Derived Expression'''
#:*[[A per se]]
#::'''Etymology:''' Latin ''per se'' by itself
#::''(Obsolete):'' one preëminent, a nonesuch
#:::'''Quotation:''' O fair Creseide, the flower and '''A per se''' Of Troy and Greece - [[Chaucer]]
#(Programming) The 11th symbol in the 16-base [[hexadecimal]] system.(Usually always capitalized.)

===Indefinite article===
====Etymology====
Shortened form of [[an]] [[Anglo-Saxon]] [[&#257;n]] (one). See [[One]]

====Definition====
#The indefinite article signifyies one or any, but less emphatically.
#:'''Examples and Quotations'''
#:*At a birth"
#:*In a word"
#:*At a blow" - Shakespeare, ''?''. 
#:'''Notes'''
#:#It is placed before nouns of the singular number denoting an individual object, or a quality individualized, before collective nouns, and also before plural nouns when the adjective few or the phrase great many or good many is interposed; as, a dog, a house, a man; a color; a sweetness; a hundred, a fleet, a regiment; a few persons, a great many days. It is used for an, for the sake of euphony, before words beginning with a consonant sound [for exception of certain words beginning with h, see An]; as, a table, a woman, a year, a unit, a eulogy, a ewe, a oneness, such a one, etc. Formally an was used both before vowels and consonants.

====Etymology====
Derived from the preposition meaning "on"

====Definition====
#In each; to or for each; as, "twenty leagues a day", "a hundred pounds a year", "a dollar a yard", etc.

===Preposition===
====Etymology====
Abbreviated form of ''[[an]]'' (Anglo Saxon ''on''). See [[On]])
#''(Obsolete):'' In; on; at; by.
#:'''Examples and Quotations'''
#:*A God's name.
#:*Torn a pieces. 
#:*Stand a tiptoe. 
#:*A Sundays" - Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, IV-v''. 
#:*Wit that men have now a days. - [[Chaucer]]. 
#:*Set them a work. - Robynson, ''More's Utopia''
#In process of; in the act of; into; to; 
#:'''Notes'''
#:#Used with verbal substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a shortened form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel sound); as in a hunting, a building, a begging.
#:#The hyphen may be used to connect a with the verbal substantive (as, a-hunting, a-building) or the words may be written separately. This form of expression is now for the most part obsolete, the a being omitted and the verbal substantive treated as a participle.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Jacob, when he was a dying - ''Hebrews 11-21''. 
#:*We'll a birding together. 
#:*It was a doing. - Shakespeare 
#:*He burst out a laughing." - [[Macaulay]].
====Etymology====
From Anglo Saxon "of", "off", "from". See [[of]]
====Definition====
#''(Obsolete):'' Of. 
#:'''Examples and Quotations'''
#:*The name of John a Gaunt.
#:*What time a day is it? - Shakespeare, ''1 Henry IV, I-ii''. 
#:*It's six a clock. - [[B. Jonson]].
===Corrupted word===
#A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and of they.  "So would I a done"
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*a' brushes his hat o' mornings. - Shakespeare, ''Much Ado About Nothing, III-ii''
===Expletive===
#An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter in a rhyming couplet
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A merry heart goes all the day, <br>Your sad tires in a mile-a - Shakespeare, ''The Winter's Tale, IV-iii''
===Abbreviation===
'''A'''
#[[ampere]] in the [[International System of Units]]
#''(as capital):'' vehicle distinguishing sign for [[Austria]]

'''a'''
#[[year]] in the [[International System of Units]]

===Prefix===
See [[a-]] for these usages

===Article===
[[indefinite article]], [[indefinite]] [[article]], see also: [[an]]
====Translations====
*Afrikaans: [['n]]
*Arabic: not used.
*[[Aragonese]]: [[un]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f''
*[[Breton]]: [[un]] ''before the letters'' N D T H, [[ul]] ''before the letter'' L, [[ur]] ''before the other letters''
*[[Catalan]]: [[un]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f''
*Chinese: [[一]], [[一个]]
*Czech: not used.
*Danish: [[en]] ''c'', [[et]] ''c''
*Dutch: [[een]]
*[[Esperanto]]: not used.
*{{fj}}: [[e dua na]]
*Finnish: not used.
*French: [[un]], [[une]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[in]]
*[[Georgian]]: not used.
*German: [[ein]], [[eine]]
*Greek: [[ένα]],[[μία]]<!-- This is modern Greek - Paul G -->
*Greek, Modern: [[ένας]] ''m'', [[μία]] ''f'', [[ένα]] ''n''
*Hebrew: not used.
*[[Interlingua]]: [[un]]
*Italian: [[un]] ''m'', [[uno]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f'', [[un']] ''f''
*Japanese: not used.
*Korean: not used.
*[[Lingua Franca Nova]]: ''un''
*Portuguese: [[um]] ''m'', [[uma]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[un]] ''m'', [[o]] ''f''
*Russian: not used.
*Spanish: [[un]] ''m'', [[una]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[en]] ''c'', [[ett]] ''n''
*Turkish: [[bir]] 'küçük bir kebap, lütfen'
*Vietnamese: [[cái]] (for inanimate objects), [[con]] (for animals, people, etc.), [[cuốn]] (for books, etc.), [[người]] (for people), [[quả]] (for fruit)

----

==Aragonese==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[illa]]''.

===Definite article===
'''a''' ''f singular''

#[[the]]
#:''A luenga aragonesa'' = "The Aragonese language"

----

==Czech==
===Conjunction===
'''a'''
#[[and]]

----
==Italian==
===Preposition===
'''a'''

#[[in]]
#[[at]]
#[[to]]

====Combined forms====
''When followed by a definite article'', '''a''' ''is combined with the article to give the following combined forms'':

<table border="1" align="center" cellpadding="5">
<tr><th>A + article<th>Combined form</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[il#Italian|il]]<td align="center">[[al#Italian|al]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[lo#Italian|lo]]<td align="center">[[allo]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[l'#Italian|l']]<td align="center">[[all']]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[i#Italian|i]]<td align="center">[[ai]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[gli]]<td align="center">[[agli]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[la#Italian|la]]<td align="center">[[alla]]</tr>
<tr><td align="center">a + [[le#Italian|le]]<td align="center">[[alle]]</tr>
</table>

----

==Latin==
===Preposition===
'''a''' (''also '''[[ab]]''')

# [[of]], [[from]]
#: "Thomas a Becket"

====Usage note====
Takes object in [[ablative]] case.

===Abbreviation===

#[[annus]]
#[[ante]]
#[[Aulus]]
#[[absolvo]]
#[[antiquo]]

----
==Portuguese==
'''a'''

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[illa]]''

===Definite article===
'''a''' ''f singular''

#[[the]]
#:''Lá vem a chuva.'' = "There comes the rain."

<table border="1">
<tr><th></th><th>masculine</th><th>feminine</th></tr>
<tr><th>singular</th><td>[[o]]</td><td>a</td></tr>
<tr><th>plural</th><td>[[os]]</td><td>[[as]]</td></tr>
</table>

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[ad]]''

===Preposition===
'''a'''

#[[to]]
#:''Vamos a Paris!'' = "Let's go to Paris!"
#Indicates position: [[at]]. (''Cf.'' [[em]].)
#:''Onde vai ele a esta hora da noite'' = "Where does he go at this time of night?"
#Indicates the direct object, mainly to avoid confusion when it, or the subject, or both, is displaced.
#:''A mim ele não engana.'' = "He doesn't deceive me." (lit. "To me he doesn't deceive.")

====Usage notes====
*Merges with following definite articles [[o]], a, [[os]], [[as]], producing [[ao]], [[à]], [[aos]], [[às]].

===Personal pronoun, ''3rd person'' ''f'' ''sing.''===
From Latin [[illa]].
#[[Her]], [[it]] (as a direct object; as an indirect object, see [[lhe]]; after prepositions, see [[ela]]).
#:''Encontrei-a na rua.'' = "I met her/it at the street."

====Usage notes====
*Becomes -[[la]] after verb forms ending in ''-r, -s'', or ''-z'', the pronouns [[nos]] and [[vos]], and the adverb [[eis]]; the ending letter causing the change disappears.
*:After [[ver]]: ''Posso vê-la?'' = "May I see her/it?"
*:After [[por|pôs]]: ''Quero pô-la ali.'' = "I want to put her/it there."
*:After [[fazer|fiz]]: ''Fi-la ficar contente.'' = "I made her/it become happy."
*:After [[nos]]: ''Deu-no-la relutantemente.'' = "He gave her/it to us reluctantly."
*:After [[eis]]: ''Ei-la!'' = "Behold her/it!"
*Becomes -[[na]] after a nasal diphthong: ''-ão, -am'' [&#592;&#771;w&#771;], ''-õe'' [õj&#771;], ''-em, -êm'' [e&#771;j&#771;].
*:''Detêm-na como prisioneira.'' = "They detain her/it as a prisoner."
*In Brasil it is being abandoned in favor of the nominative form [[ela]].
*:''Eu a vi.'' &rarr; ''Eu vi ela.'' = "I saw her/it."

===See also===
*[[para]]

----
== Slovak ==
=== Conjunction ===
'''a'''
#[[and]]

----
== Spanish ==
=== Pronunciation ===
*[[SAMPA]]: /a/
*[[International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: /a/

=== Preposition ===
'''a'''
#[[to]]
#[[by]]
#[[at]]
#Used before words referring to people, pets, or personified objects or places, that function as direct objects.  This word is not translated in English.

==== Example ====
#:''Lo busca '''a''' Ud.'' (2) - He is looking for you.

----
== Vietnamese ==
*''Letter of the Vietnamese Alphabet:'' '''A'''

**'''Next:''' [[Ă]]

=== Interjection ===
#'''A!''' [[hah|hah!]]
#[[acre]].
<!-- entry should be written in english, headword should be written in thai!
----
== ไทย ==
#:"อักษรตัวแรกของภาษาอังกฤษ"
#"a [determiner] = หนึ่ง"
-->
[[Category:English articles]]
[[Category:English determiners]]
[[de:A]]
[[fr:A]]
[[es:a]]
[[et:A]]
[[fi:a]]
[[hu:a]]
[[pl:a]]