==English==

===Pronunciation===
As an interjection the word is pronounced basically the same way as the interjection [[ah]] but the double ''a'' stresses prolongation. In the noun and the verb there is no extra prolongation.  

===Interjection===
'''aah!'''

# Indication of [[amazement]] or [[surprise]] or [[enthusiasm]].
#: ''Aah! That's amazing!''
# Indication of [[joy]]ful [[pleasure]].
#*'''1834''' — [[w:Edgar Allan Poe|Edgar Allan Poe]], ''[[s:The Assignation|The Assignation]]''
#*:Yet I remember—'''aah!''' how should I forget?
# Indication of sympathy.
# Indication of mouth being opened wide.
#: ''Dentists would always instruct, say aah!''

====Translations====
;expressing amazement or surprise
{{top}}
*Estonian: [[ah]]
{{mid}}
*Latin: [[hui]]
*Lithuanian: [[ach]]!
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# Expression of [[amazement]] or [[surprise]] or [[enthusiasm]]. 
# Expression of joy and/or pleasure. 

====Related terms====
*[[ooh]]s and aahs

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Estonian: [[ahhetus]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To express amazement or surprise or enthusiasm, especially by the interjection '''aah'''.
#: ''Everyone who came by oohed and aahed over her new appearance.''
# To express joy or pleasure, especially by the interjection '''aah'''.

====Usage notes====
*Usually the verb is intransitive. The object of feelings usually is indicated by the prepositions [[over]] or [[at]]; sometimes it occurs as a direct object, especially in passive constructions. 
*Very often the word is used together with some other verb derived from an interjection. The most common combination is ''to [[ooh]] and aah''. Perhaps it should be regarded as a separate lexical item.  
*The word belongs to the informal style.

====Translations====
;to express amazement using "aah!"
{{top}}
*Estonian: [[ahhetama]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Anagrams===
*[[aha]]

[[Category:Interjections]]

[[et:aah]]
[[zh:aah]]