==English==
===Etymology===
From Old French ''[[abandoner]]'' (to surrender), composed of ''[[à]]'' (at, to) + ''[[bandon]]'' (power, jurisdiction) as used in the phrase ''[[mettre à bandon]]'' (to give up to a public ban) < Late Latin ''[[bannum]]'' (proclamation) < Frankish ''*[[ban#Frankish|ban]]'' < Proto-Germanic ''*[[bannan]]'' (to proclaim, command, forbid) < Proto-Indo-European base ''*[[bha- ]]'' (to speak); compare Gothic ''[[bandwjan]]'' (to show by signs, to designate), Old High German ''[[ban#Old High German|ban]]'' (proclamation), Old High German ''[[bannan]]'' (to command or forbid under threat of punishment), Old Irish ''[[bann]]'' (law). See ''[[ban]]''.

=== Verb ===
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=19%|
{|
''infinitive''<br>
'''to abandon'''
*{{IPA|/əˈbændən/}}
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=19%|
{|
''third-person singular''<br>
'''abandons'''
*{{IPA|/əˈbændənz/}}
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=19%|
{|
''past tense''<br>
'''abandoned'''
*{{IPA|/əˈbændənd/}}
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=19%|
{|
''past participle''<br>
'''abandoned'''
*{{IPA|/əˈbændənd/}}

|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#fff3f3" valign=top width=19%|
{|
''present participle''<br>
'''abandoning'''
*{{IPA|/əˈbændənɪŋ/}}
|}
|}

====Transitive====

#(''obsolete'') to cast or drive out; to [[banish]]; to [[expel]]; to [[reject]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That he might ... abandon them from him. — [[Udall.]]
#:*Being all this time abandoned from your bed. — Shakespeare, ''The Taming of the Shrew, I-ii''
#to give up [[absolutely]]; to [[forsake]] entirely; to [[renounce]] utterly; to [[relinquish]] all [[connection]] with or [[concern]] on; to [[desert]], as a person to whom one owes [[allegiance]] or [[fidelity]]; to quit; to surrender.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Hope was overthrown, yet could not be abandoned. — [[I. Taylor.]]
#''(reflexively)'' to give (one’s self) up without attempt at [[self-control]]; to yield (one’s self) [[unrestrainedly]]; — often in a bad sense.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He abandoned himself ... to his favorite vice. — [[Macaulay.]]
#''(maritime law):'' to [[relinquish]] all [[claim]] to; — used when an [[insured]] person gives up to [[underwriters]] all claim to the property covered by a policy that may remain after loss or damage by a [[peril]] insured against.

=====Derived terms=====
*[[abandonware]]

=====Synonyms=====
*[[give up]]; [[yield]]; [[forego]]; [[cede]]; [[surrender]]; [[resign]]; [[abdicate]]; [[quit]]; [[relinquish]]; [[renounce]]; [[desert]]; [[forsake]]; [[leave]]; [[retire]]; [[withdraw]] from

=====Usage note=====
*Abandon, [[desert]], [[forsake]]. These words agree in representing a person as ''giving up'' or ''leaving'' some object, but [[differ]] as to the mode of doing it. The [[distinctive]] sense of abandon is that of giving up a thing absolutely and [[finally]]; as, to abandon one’s friends, places, opinions, good or evil habits, a [[hopeless]] enterprise, a [[shipwrecked]] vessel.
*''Abandon'' is more widely [[applicable]] than ''forsake'' or ''desert''. The Latin original of ''desert'' appears to have been originally applied to the case of [[deserter]]s from military service. Hence, the verb, when used of ''persons'' in the active voice, has usually or always a bad sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of something which the person should rightfully stand by and support; as, to ''desert'' one’s colors, to ''desert'' one's post, to ''desert'' one’s principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not necessarily bad; as, the fields were ''deserted'', a ''deserted'' village, ''deserted'' halls.
*''Forsake'' implies the breaking off of previous habit, association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to ''forsake'' the paths of [[rectitude]], the blood ''forsook'' his cheeks. It may be used either in a good or in a bad sense.

=====Translations=====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Arabic: [[ترك|تَرَكَ]] (táraka)
*Bulgarian: [[изоставям]] (izostavjam), [[напускам]] (napuskam)
*[[Catalan]]: [[abandonar]], [[desemparar]]
*[[Cherokee]]: [[ᏗᏲᎯᏗ]] (diyohidi) 
*Chinese: [[放弃]] (líqì)
*Dutch: [[verlaten]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[forlasi]]
*Finnish: [[jättää]], [[hylätä]]
*French: [[abandonner]]
*German: [[aufgeben]] (2,3), [[verlassen]] (2)
*Greek: [[εγκαταλείπω]] (egkataleípo)
*Norwegian: [[yfirgefa]]
*[[Ido]]: [[abandonar]]
*Indonesian: [[biar|membiarkan]], [[telantar|menelantarkan]], [[abai|mengabaikan]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abandonar]]
*Irish: [[tréig]]
*Italian: [[abbandonare]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Japanese: [[放置]]する ([[ほうち]]する, hōchi-surú), [[放っておく]] ([[ほうっておく]], hōtte-oku), [[ほったらかす]] (hottarakasu)
*Korean: [[버리다]] (beorida)
*Latin: [[relinquere]]
*Norwegian: [[oppgi]], [[forlate]]
*Polish: [[opuszczać]]
*Portuguese: [[abandonar]]
*Russian: [[покидать]] / [[покинуть]] (pokidát’ / pokínut’)
*Spanish: [[:es:abandonar|abandonar]]
*Swedish: [[överge]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[klemön]], [[lüvön]]
|}
|}

=== Noun ===
'''abandon''' (''no plural'')
#''(obsolete)'' [[abandonment]]; [[relinquishment]].
#A complete [[give up|giving up]] to natural [[impulses]]; [[freedom]] from [[artificial]] [[constraint]]; careless freedom or [[ease]].

====Translations====
{| border=0 width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Bulgarian: [[изоставяне]] (izostavjane) ''n'', [[напускане]] (napuskane) ''n''
*Chinese: [[放肆]] (lísì)
*Dutch: [[verlatenheid]] ''f'', [[ongedwongenheid]] ''f''
*[[Esperanto]]: [[forlaso]]
*French: [[abandon#French|abandon]] ''m''
*German: [[Verlassen]] ''n'' (1), [[Aufgabe]] ''f'' (1), [[Hingabe]] ''f'' (2), [[Ungezwungenheit]] ''f'' (2), [[Selbstvergessenheit]] ''f'' (2)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abandono]]
*Italian: [[abbandono]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[abandono]] ''m'' 
*Spanish: [[abandono]] ''m''
*[[Volapük]]: [[klem]], [[lüv]]
|}
|}

[[de:abandon]]
[[fr:abandon]]
[[gl:Abandon]]
[[it:abandon]]
[[he:Abandon]]
[[ru:Abandon]]