===Etymology===
Franch ''abaisser'', Late Latin ''abassare'', ''abbassare'' ; ''ad'' + ''bassare'', from ''bassus'' low. See [[Base]] (adjective)
===Transitive verb===
imperfect and past participle [[Abased]] /a&#775b&#257st/<br>
present participle and verbal noun: [[Abasing]] 
#''(Archaic):'' To lower or [[depress]]; to throw or cast down; as, to ''abase'' the eye. - [[Bacon]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Saying so, he ''abased'' his lance. - [[Shelton]]
#To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or [[estimation]] of [[worthiness]]; to depress; to humble; to [[degrade]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Whosoever exalteth himself shall be ''abased''. - ''Luke 14:ll''
#:'''Synonyms:''' 
#:*[[Debase]], [[Degrade]]. These words agree in the idea of bringing down from a higher to a lower state. 
#:*''Abase'' has reference to a bringing down in condition or feelings; as, to ''abase'' the proud, to ''abase'' one's self before God. 
#:*''Debase'' has reference to the bringing down of a thing in [[purity]], or ''making it base''. It is, therefore, always used in a bad sense, as, to ''debase'' the coin of the kingdom, to ''debase'' the mind by [[vicious]] [[indulgence]], to ''debase'' one's style by coarse or vulgar expressions. 
#:*''Degrade'' has reference to a bringing down from some higher ''grade'' or from some standard. Thus, a priest is ''degraded'' from the [[clerical]] office. When used in a moral sense, it denotes a bringing down in character and just [[estimation]]; as, ''degraded'' by [[intemperance]], a ''degrading'' employment, etc. "Art is ''degraded'' when it is regarded only as a trade."

===Translations===
*[[Ekspreso]]: [[abaser]], [[rebaser]]
*[[French]]: [[baisser]], [[abaisser]], [[rabaisser]], [[humilier]]
*[[German]]: [[erniedrigen sie]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abassar]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[rebaixar]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[rebajar]]