{{Wikisource1911Enc|Abated}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/əˈbeɪt/}}
** {{SAMPA|/@"beIt/}}

===Etymology 1===
From Old French ''[[abatre]]'' "to beat down", from Late Latin ''[[abatere]]'', formed from ''[[ab-]]'' or ''[[ad-]]'' + ''[[battere]]'', from Latin ''[[battuere]]'' "to beat".
* Known [[cognate]]s: French ''[[abattre]]''

====Verb====
{{en-verb|abat|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To [[bring down]] (a person) physically or mentally; to [[humble]]; to [[depress]].
# {{transitive}} To bring down or [[reduce]] to a lower state, number, or degree; to [[lessen]]; to [[diminish]]; to [[contract]]; to [[moderate]]; to [[cut short]].
#*'''1605''': She hath '''abated''' me of half my train — William Shakespeare, ''King Lear'', II.ii
#*'''1611''': His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. — ''Deuteronomy'' 34:7
# {{intransitive}} To [[decrease]], or become less in strength or violence; to experience a [[diminution]] of force or of [[intensity]].
#: ''The pain abates.''
#: ''The storm abated.''
#* The fury of Glengarry ... rapidly abated. - Thomas Macaulay
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To [[beat down]]; to [[destroy]]; to [[level]] with the ground.
#* The King of Scots ... sore abated the walls. - Edward Hall
# {{transitive}} To [[deduct]]; to [[omit]]; as, to abate something from a price.
#* Nine thousand parishes, abating the odd hundreds. - Fuller
# {{transitive}} To [[bar]]; to [[except]].
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To [[blunt]].
#* To abate the edge of envy. - Francis Bacon
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To [[reduce]] in [[estimation]]; to [[deprive]]. 
#* She hath abated me of half my train. - Shakespeare, ''King Lear, II-iv''
# {{transitive}} {{law}} To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with.
#: ''To abate a nuisance.''
#: ''To abate a writ.''
# {{transitive}} {{law}} To [[diminish]]; to [[reduce]]. 
#: ''Legacies are liable to be '''abated''' entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets.''
# {{intransitive}} To be defeated or come to [[naught]]; to fall through; to fail.
#: ''A writ abates.''

=====Synonyms=====
* [[subside]]
* [[decrease]]
* [[intermit]]
* [[decline]]
* [[diminish]]
* [[lessen]]

=====Derived terms=====
* [[abatable]]
* [[abater]]
* [[abate of]]
* [[abate a tax]]
* [[abate into a freehold]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[abatement]]
* [[abator]]
* [[abattoir]]

=====Translations=====
'''to bring down a person physically or mentally'''
{{top}}
*German: [[nachlassen]], zurückgehen
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to bring down or reduce to a lower state'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[vähentää]]
*German: [[verringern]], [[mindern]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to decrease or become less'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[heiketä]], [[tyyntyä]], [[vähetä]]
*German: [[nachlassen]], sich [[legen]] ''(storm)''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to beat down'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[neerslaan]]
*Finnish: [[heiketä]], [[vähetä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to deduct'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to bar, to except'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to blunt'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to reduce in estimation'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to bring entirely down or put an end to'''
{{top}}
*German: [[einstellen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to diminish, to reduce'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[vähentää]], [[alentaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to be defeated'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[събарям]] (1), [[понижавам]] (2), [[намалявам]] (2,7),[[притъпявам]] (4), [[прекратявам]] (6)
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[стихвам]] (1), [[утихвам]] (1), [[провалям се]] (2)
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[laghdaigh]], [[laghdú]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[abater]], [[contristar]], [[abaixar]], [[mingoar]], [[diminuir]]
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[laghdaigh]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[minske]], [[forringe]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[azaltmak]] (1)

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# {{obsolete}} [[abatement]]. - Sir T. Browne

===Etymology 2===
From Italian ''[[#Italian|abate]]''

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An Italian [[abbot]].

===Shorthand===
====[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand Gregg]====
* (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Centennial_Gregg_Shorthand Centennial],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Series_90_Gregg_Shorthand Series 90],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Diamond_Jubilee_Gregg_Shorthand  DJS],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Simplified_Gregg_Shorthand Simplified],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Anniversary],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Pre-Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Pre-Anniversary]): a - b - a - t

----

==Italian==

===Noun===
'''abate''' {{m}} (''plural:'' '''[[abati]]''')
# [[abbot]]

===Related terms===
*[[abbazia]]


----
==Novial==

===Noun===
'''abate'''
#[[abbot]], or [[abotess]]
====Derivation====
A root word.

===Related terms===
{|
|[[abato]] || { n } || [[abbot]]
|-
|[[abata]] || { n } || [[abbotess]]
|-
|[[abatia]] || { n } || [[abbey]]
|}

----
==Romanian==

===Etymology===
from Italian ''[[abate]]''
===Noun===
'''abate''' {{m}}, pl. ''[[abaţi]]''
#[[abbot]].
[[Category:Italian nouns]]
[[Category:Romanian nouns]]

[[es:abate]]
[[fr:abate]]
[[io:abate]]
[[it:abate]]
[[hu:abate]]
[[pl:abate]]
[[pt:abate]]
[[fi:abate]]
[[sv:abate]]
[[vi:abate]]
[[uk:abate]]
[[zh:abate]]