==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[abdicatus]]'', past participle of ''[[abdicare]]'', formed from ''[[ab-]]'' + ''[[dicare]]'' "to proclaim", akin to [[dicere]] to say.

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/ˈæbdɪkeɪt/}}
* ''US:''
** {{SAMPA|/{bdIkEt/}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|abdicat|e}}

# {{transitive}} To [[surrender]], [[renounce]] or [[relinquish]], as sovereign power; to [[withdraw]] [[definitely]] from filling or [[exercising]], as a high office, station, dignity; as, to ''abdicate'' the throne, the crown, the [[papacy]].
#: ''Note:'' The word ''abdicate'' was held to mean, in the case of James II, to abandon without a formal surrender.
#* The cross-bearers ''abdicated'' their service. - Gibbon
#* He ''abdicates'' all right to be his own governor. - Edmund Burke
#* The understanding ''abdicates'' its functions. - Froude
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To reject; to cast off. - Bp. Hall
# {{transitive}} {{law}} To [[disclaim]] and [[expel]] from the family, as a father his child; to [[disown]]; to [[disinherit]].
# {{intransitive}} To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or dignity; to renounce [[sovereignty]].
#* Though a king may ''abdicate'' for his own person, he cannot ''abdicate'' for the monarchy. - w:Edmund Burke

====Synonyms====
* [[give up]]
* [[quit]]
* [[vacate]]
* [[relinquish]]
* [[forsake]]
* [[abandon]]
* [[resign]]
* [[renounce]]
* [[desert]]

====Derived terms====
* [[abdicable]]
* [[abdicant]]
* [[abdicator]]

====Related terms====
* [[abdication]]

====Translations====
'''to surrender or relinquish'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[afstand doen]] (van)
{{mid}}
* French: [[abdiquer]]
{{bottom}}

'''to reject'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[weigeren]], [[afwijzen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to disinherit'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[onterven]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to renounce a throne'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[aftreden]], [[troonsafstand]] [[doen]], [[abdiceren]]
{{mid}}
* French: [[abdiquer]]
{{bottom}}

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[παραιτούμαι]]
*{{ttbc|Macedonian}}: [[се одкажува]] (se odkažuva)
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[frasi seg]]
*{{ttbc|Novial}}: [[abdika]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[abdicar]]-se
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[abdicar]]
*{{ttbc|Slovak}}: [[vzdať]] sa (úradu), [[odstúpiť]], [[zriecť]] sa

===Shorthand===
====[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand Gregg]====
* (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Centennial_Gregg_Shorthand Centennial],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Series_90_Gregg_Shorthand  Series 90],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Diamond_Jubilee_Gregg_Shorthand  DJS]): a - b - d - e - k - a - t
* (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Simplified_Gregg_Shorthand Simplified],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Anniversary],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Pre-Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Pre-Anniversary]): a - b - d - e - k

===References===
*Webster 1913

[[fr:abdicate]]
[[gl:abdicate]]
[[io:abdicate]]
[[it:abdicate]]
[[pt:abdicate]]
[[fi:abdicate]]
[[uk:abdicate]]
[[zh:abdicate]]