'''Aberration''', ''[[noun (part of speech)|noun]]'' [L. ''aberratio'': cf. F. ''aberration''. See [[Aberrate]].]

<ol>
<li>The act of wandering; [[deviation]], especially from truth or moral [[rectitude]], from the natural state, or from a type.

<code>The ''aberration'' of youth.</code> ''[[Hall (source)|Hall]].''

<code>''Aberrations'' from theory.</code> ''[[Burke (source)|Burke]].''

<li> A partial [[alienation]] of reason.

<code>Occasional ''aberrations'' of intellect.</code> ''[[Lingard (source)|Lingard]].''

<code>Whims, which at first are the ''aberrations'' of a single brain, pass with heat into epidemic form. ''[[I. Taylor (source)|I. Taylor]].''</code>

<li> ''([[Astron (subject)|Astron]]).'' A small [[periodical]] change of position in the stars and other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light and the motion of the [[observer]]; called ''annual aberration'', when the [[observer's]] motion is that of the earth in its [[orbit]], and ''daily'' or ''diurnal aberration'', when of the earth on its axis; [[amounting]] when greatest, in the former case, to 20.4[[&quot;&quot]];, and in the latter, to 0.3&quot;&quot;. ''Planetary aberration'' is that due to the motion of light and the motion of the [[planet]] relative to the earth.

<li> ''([[Opt (subject)|Opt]]).'' The [[convergence]] to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays of light [[emanating]] from one and the same point, or the deviation of such rays from a single focus; called ''spherical aberration'', when due to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving different foci for central and [[marginal]] rays; and ''chromatic aberration'', when due to different [[refrangibilities]] of the colored rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.

<li> ''([[Physiol (subject)|Physiol]]).'' The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate for it.

<li> ''(Law)'' The producing of an [[unintended]] effect by the [[glancing]] of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.

'''Synonyms:''' -- [[Insanity]]; [[lunacy]]; [[madness]]; [[derangement]]; [[alienation]]; [[mania]]; [[dementia]]; [[hallucination]]; [[illusion]]; [[delusion]]. See [[Insanity]].
</ol>

<HR> <P> <H3>Translations</H3><BR>• [[Finnish]]: [[poikkeavuus]], [[poikkeama]], [[poikkeaminen]], [[erehdys]] (1,2), [[optinen aberraatio]] (4) <BR>• [[French]]: [[Aberration]]<BR>• [[German]]: [[Abweichung]]<BR>• [[Interlingua]]: [[Aberration]]<BR>• [[Italian]]: [[Aberrazione]]<BR>• [[Portuguese]]: [[Aberração]]<BR>• [[Spanish]]: [[Aberración]]<BR>• [[]]: [[]]