==English==

===Etymology===
French ''[[habileté]]'', earlier spelling ''[[habilité]]'' (with [[silent]] ''h''), Latin ''[[habilitas]]'' [[aptitude]], ability, from ''[[habilis]]'' aparently.  See [[able]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, [[conventional]], or legal; capacity; skill or [[competence]] in doing; [[sufficiency]] of strength, skill, [[resources]], etc.; -- in the ''plural'', faculty, [[talent]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Then the disciples, every man according to his '''ability''', determined to send relief unto the brethren - ''Acts 11:29''
#:*Natural '''abilities''' are like natural plants, that need pruning by study - [[Bacon]]
#:*The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of '''ability''' - [[Macaulay]]
#Considerable [[proficiency]]; natural [[capability]].

===Synonyms===
*Capacity; [[talent]]; [[cleverness]]; faculty; [[capability]]; [[efficiency]]; [[aptitude]]; [[aptness]]; address; [[dexterity]]; skill. [[Ability]], [[Capacity]]. These words come into comparison when applied to the higher intellectual powers. 

===Usage notes===
*'''Ability''' has reference to the ''active'' exercise of our [[faculties]]. It implies not only native vigor of mind, but that ease and [[promptitude]] of execution which [[arise]] from mental [[training]]. Thus, we speak of the ''ability'' with which a book is written, an argument maintained, a [[negotiation]] carried on, etc. It always something to be ''done'', and the power of ''doing'' it. 
*'''Capacity''' has reference to the ''receptive'' powers. In its higher exercises it [[suppose]]s great [[quickness]] of apprehension and breadth of intellect, with an [[uncommon]] aptitude for [[acquiring]] and [[retaining]] knowledge. Hence it carries with it the idea of ''resources'' and [[undeveloped]] power. Thus we speak of the extraordinary ''capacity'' of such men as Lord Bacon, [[Blaise]] [[Pascal]], and [[Edmund Burke]]. "''Capacity''," says H. Taylor, "is [[requisite]] to [[devise]], and ''ability'' to [[execute]], a great enterprise." The word ''abilities'', in the plural, [[embraces]] both these qualities, and denotes high mental [[endowments]]

===Translations===
{{top}}
*Arabic:القدرة
*[[Basque]]: [[gaitasun]], [[trebetasun]], [[abilezia]]
*Dutch: [[vaardigheid]], [[vermogen]]
*Finnish: [[kyky]]
*German: [[Fähigkeit]] {{f}}
*Hebrew: [[יכולת]] {{f}}
*[[Irish]]: [[ábaltacht]] ''f3'', [[cumas]] ''m1''
*Italian: [[abilità]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Macedonian: [[способност]] (sposobnost)
*Norwegian: [[evne]] ''m1''
*Portuguese: [[habilidade]]
*Spanish: [[habilidad]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[förmåga]] {{c}}
*Telugu: [[దక్షత]] (dakshata), [[సత్తా]] (sattaa)
*Welsh: [[gallu]]
{{bottom}}

===Shorthand===
====[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand Gregg]====
* (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Centennial_Gregg_Shorthand Centennial],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Series_90_Gregg_Shorthand  Series 90],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Diamond_Jubilee_Gregg_Shorthand  DJS],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Simplified_Gregg_Shorthand Simplified]): a - b - disjoined l
* (Version: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Anniversary],[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregg_Shorthand#Pre-Anniversary_Gregg_Shorthand Pre-Anniversary]): a - disjoined b

[[ar:ability]]
[[be:ability]]
[[el:ability]]
[[fr:ability]]
[[hy:ability]]
[[io:ability]]
[[it:ability]]
[[hu:ability]]
[[pt:ability]]
[[fi:ability]]
[[ta:ability]]
[[tr:ability]]
[[uk:ability]]
[[zh:ability]]