'''Abject''', ''[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]'' [L. ''abjectus'', p. p. of ''abjicere'' to throw away; ''ab'' + ''jacere'' to throw. See [[Jet]] a [[shooting]] forth.]

<ol>
<li>Cast down; low- lying. [Obs.]

<code>From the safe shore their floating carcasses And broken chariot wheels; so thick bestrown ''Abject'' and lost lay these, covering the flood. ''[[Milton (source)|Milton]].''</code>

<li> Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; [[degraded]]; [[servile]]; [[groveling]]; [[despicable]]; as, ''abject'' [[posture]], fortune, thoughts.

<code>Base and ''abject'' flatterers.</code> ''[[Addison (source)|Addison]].''

<code>An ''abject'' liar.</code> ''[[Macaulay (source)|Macaulay]].''

<code>And banish hence these ''abject'', lowly dreams. ''[[Shakespeare (source)|Shakespeare]].''</code>

'''Synonyms:''' -- Mean; groveling; [[cringing]]; [[mean-spirited]]; [[slavish]]; [[ignoble]]; worthless; vile; [[beggarly]]; [[contemptible]]; degraded.
</ol>
-----
'''Abject''', ''[[transitive verb (part of speech)|transitive verb]]'' [From [[Abject]], ''[[adjective (part of speech)|adjective]]'']

To cast off or down; hence, to [[abase]]; to [[degrade]]; to lower; to [[debase]]. [Obs.] ''[[Donne (source)|Donne]].''
-----
'''Abject''', ''[[noun (part of speech)|noun]]''

A person in the lowest and most [[despicable]] condition; a [[castaway]]. [Obs.]

<code>Shall these ''abjects'', these victims, these outcasts, know any thing of pleasure? ''[[I. Taylor (source)|I. Taylor]].''</code>