===Etymology===
Old French ''habile'', Latin ''habilis'' that may be easily held or [[managed]], apt, [[skillful]], from ''habere'' to have, hold. Compare [[Habile]] and see [[Habit]].

===[[Adjective]]===
''[[Comparative]]:'' [[Abler]]<br>
''[[Superlative]]'' [[Ablest]]  
#''(Obsolete):'' Fit; adapted; suitable. 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A many man, to ben an abbot ''able''. - Chaucer, ''Prologue to Canterbury Tales''
#Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or [[resources]] of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of [[qualifications]] rendering [[competent]] for some end; [[competent]]; [[qualified]]; capable; as, an ''able'' [[workman]], soldier, [[seaman]], a man ''able'' to work; a mind ''able'' to reason; a person ''able'' to be [[generous]]; ''able'' to endure pain; ''able'' to play on a [[piano]].
#[[Specially]]: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental powers; showing ability or skill; [[talented]]; [[clever]]; powerful; as, the ''ablest'' man in the [[senate]]; an ''able'' speech.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*No man wrote ''abler'' state papers. - [[Macaulay]].
#''(Law)'' [[Legally]] qualified; possessed of legal [[competence]]; as, ''able'' to [[inherit]] or [[devise]] property.
#'''Able for''', is a [[Scotticism]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Hardly ''able for'' such a march. - [[Robertson]].
#:'''Synonyms:'''
#:*[[Competent]]; qualified; fitted; [[efficient]]; [[effective]]; capable; [[skillful]]; clever; [[vigorous]]; powerful.

===Translations===
*[[Basque]]: [[gauza]] (2), [[gai]] (2), [[trebe                             ]] (3), [[iaio]] (3), [[abil]] (3)
*[[Breton]]: [[gouest]] da ''+ verb'' / d'ober un dra bennak (to do something), [[barrek]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[in staat om]], [[kapabel]], [[kundig]], [[competent]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ebla]]
*[[French]]: [[capable]]
*Indonesian: [[mampu]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[capáz]]

===[[Transitive verb]]===
#To make able; to [[enable]]; to strengthen.
#To [[vouch]] for.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I 'll ''able'' 'em. - Shakespeare, ''King Lear, IV-vi''
===Translations===

Lojban: [[kakne]]