==English==
===Etymology===
From French ''[[abolir]]'', which comes from Latin ''[[abolere]]'', from ''[[ab]]'' + ''[[olere]]'' "to grow".

===Pronunciation===
* ([[RP]]) {{IPA|/əˈbɒlɪʃ/}}
<!-- please specify -->
*ə-bŏl'ĭsh, /<tt>@"bQlIS</tt>/
*ə'bolish 

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|abolish||}}

# To do away with [[wholly]]; to [[annul]]; to [[make void]]; to end a [[law]], [[system]], [[custom]] or [[institution]]
#:''Slavery was '''abolished''' in the nineteenth century.''
# {{archaic}} To put an [[end]] to or [[destroy]], as a physical object; to [[wipe out]]. 
#:''And with thy blood '''abolish''' so reproachful blot.'' - Spenser
#:''His quick instinctive hand Caught at the hilt, as to '''abolish''' him.'' - Tennyson

====Synonyms====
* [[abrogate]]
* [[annul]]
* [[cancel]]
* [[nullify]]
* [[repeal]]
* [[revoke]]

<!-- what to do with this? WikiSaurus?
These words have in common the idea of setting aside by some [[overruling]] act.
*''Abolish'' [[applies]] particularly to things of a permanent nature, such as institutions, usages, customs, etc.; as, to ''abolish'' [[monopolies]], [[serfdom]], slavery. ''Repeal'' [[describes]] the act by which the legislature of a state sets aside a law which it had previously [[enacted]]. 
*''Abrogate'' was originally applied to the [[repeal]] of a law by the Roman people; and hence, when the power of making laws was [[usurped]] by the [[emperors]], the term was applied to ''their'' act of setting aside the laws. Thus it came to express that act by which a sovereign or an [[executive]] government sets aside laws, [[ordinances]], [[regulations]], [[treaties]], [[conventions]], etc. 
*''Revoke'' denotes the act of [[recalling]] some previous grant which [[conferred]], privilege, etc.; as, to ''revoke'' a decree, to ''revoke'' a power of [[attorney]], a promise, etc. Thus, also, we speak of the ''revocation'' of the [[Edict]] of [[Nantes]]. 
*''Annul'' is used in a more general sense, denoting simply to make void; as, to ''annul'' a contract, to ''annul'' an agreement. 
*''Nullify'' is an old word applied to the setting of things aside either by force or by total [[disregard]]; as, to ''nullify'' an act of Congress. 
*''Cancel'' is to strike out or annul, by a [[deliberate]] exercise of power, something which has [[operative]] force. -->

====Related terms====
* [[abolition]]
* [[abolitionist]]

====Translations====
'''to do away with something'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[为了废止]]
*Dutch: [[afschaffen]] 
*[[Esperanto]]: [[abolicii]], [[forigi]]
*Finnish: [[lakkauttaa]], [[lopettaa]]
*French: [[abolir]], [[supprimer]]
*German: [[schaffen]]
*Hebrew: [[לבטל]] (levatel)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abolir]]
*Italian: [[abolire]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[廃止する]] (haishisuru)
*Norwegian: avskaffe, forkaste
*[[Novial]]: [[aboli]]
*Portuguese: [[abolir]]
*Russian: [[отменить]]
*Slovak: [[zrušiť]]
*Spanish: [[abolir]]
*Swedish: [[överge]], [[förkasta]]
*Ukrainian: [[знечинити]], [[скасувати]]
*[[Volapük]]: [[säkibön]], [[finidön]]
{{bottom}}

'''to destroy'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vernietigen]]
*French: [[détruire]]
*German: [[vernichten]]
*Hebrew: [[להרוס]] (laharos)
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[destrozar]]
{{bottom}}

[[et:Abolish]]
[[fr:abolish]]
[[gl:Abolish]]
[[io:Abolish]]
[[it:abolish]]
[[pt:Abolish]]
[[ru:Abolish]]
[[fi:abolish]]