===Etymology===
Latin ''abortio'', from ''aboriri''. See [[Abort]].
===Noun===
#The act of giving [[premature]] birth; particularly, the [[expulsion]] of the human fetus [[prematurely]], or before it is capable of [[sustaining]] life; [[miscarriage]].
#:'''Note:''' It is sometimes used for the offense of [[procuring]] a premature delivery, but [[strictly]] the early delivery is the ''abortion'', "causing or procuring ''abortion''" is the full name of the offense. - [[Abbott]]
#The [[immature]] product of an [[untimely]] birth.
#''(Biology):'' Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an [[imperfect]] formation or is [[absorbed]].
#Any fruit or produce that does not come to [[maturity]], or anything which in its progress, before it is [[matured]] or perfect; a complete failure; as, his attempt proved an ''abortion''.

=== The Science ===
Although some will say that abortion is not a matter of life and death, arguing that a fetus is not a "person", or a "human being", medical research proves that the fetus is a living organism from the moment of conception.

A sperm has 23 chromosomes and no matter what, even though it is alive and can fertilize an egg it can never make another sperm. An egg also has 23 chromosomes and it can never make another egg. A solitary egg or a solitary sperm does not have the complete genetic code for a separate human being. The ovum and the sperm are each a product of another's body: unlike the fertilized egg, neither is an independent entity. Neither one is complete. Like cells in someone's hair or fingernails, an egg or sperm does not have the capacity to become other than what it already is. Both are essentially dead-ends, destined to remain what they are until they die in a matter of days. This negates one common argument - that the unborn isn't human, or else every time a man ejaculated, or a woman menstruated, an "unborn" dies. Obviously this is ridiculous - a sperm without an egg and an egg without a sperm does '''not''' constitute human life.

Once there is the union of a sperm and egg, the 23 chromosomes are brought together in one cell with 46 chromosomes. Once there are 46 chromosomes, that one cell has all of the DNA, the whole genetic code for a genetically distinct human life. It isn't a "potential" human life, or some "other" type of life because something non-human does not magically become human by getting older and bigger - whatever is human must be human from the beginning. Everything that constitutes a human being is present from that moment forward - the only thing added from that point on is nutrition so the unborn can grow. This new life is not a sperm or an egg, or even a simple combination of both. It is independent with a life of its own, and the development is actually self-directed. A sperm can't do that - neither can an egg. They do not "develop".

The baby's blood supply is also completely separate from the mother's. If they were not separate bodies, the mother and child having different blood types would be impossible. If a child's and mother's blood mix, it can be fatal for the child if the Rh factors are different. There is a shot to prevent this, but if there is not, and the blood of different Rh factors mix, the baby can die.

Even most medical texts and pro-choice doctors agree with pro-choice geneticist ''Ashley Montagu'', who has written: "The basic fact is simple:life begins not at birth, but at conception." The beginning of human life is not a religious, moral, or philosophical issue; it is a scientific and biological one. From the time those 23 chromosomes become 46 onward, the unborn is a living, developing individual with a unique genetic makeup.

Many people think abortion is acceptable because it's done before the fetus is what they consider "viable." However, viability is not something which should be used to determine whether someone is "human enough" to have the right to live, since viability is based on current medical science. Medical science does not determine when someone becomes human. Ten years ago, a 25 week-old fetus could not survive outside the womb. Now it can. Maybe in ten years, a 15 week old fetus will be able to be sustained outside the womb. Does this mean that the fetus, in 1999, is not human, but a fetus of the same age in 2007 is somehow more human? The point of viability constantly changes because it is based on medical technology, not the fetus itself. What if one hospital had the technology to keep a 20 week old fetus alive but another hospital only had the technology to keep a 28 week old fetus alive? Is the fetus "human" and worthy of life in one hospital but not in another?

Abortionists claim that abortion "liberates" women, when in actually it does not, in fact it instead "liberates" men. Abortion on demand liberates men who want sex without strings, promises, or responsibility. And if the woman has the baby? ''"Hey, that's her problem. She could have obtained an abortion - she chose to carry the child; let her pay for her choice."'' Abortion also "liberates" others - not the pregnant woman. For instance, employers do not have to make concessions to pregnant women and mothers. Schools do not have to accommodate to the needs of parents, and irresponsible men do not have to commit themselves to their partners or their children.

=== Translations ===
*[[Chinese]]: [[堕胎]]
*[[Dutch]]: [[Abortus]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[abortigo]]
*[[French]]: [[avortement]] ''m'' (1), [[fausse-couche]] ''m'', [[interruption volontaire de grossesse]] ''f'' (1), [[IVG]] ''f'' (1), [[avorton]] ''m'' (2)
*[[German]]: [[Abtreibung]] ''f'' (1), [[Abbruch]] ''m'' (4)
*[[Indonesian]]: [[aborsi]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[aborto]], [[gugur|menggugurkan]] [[kandung|kandungan]]
*[[Italian]]: [[aborto]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[中絶]] (ちゅうぜつ, chūzetsu)
*[[Norwegian]]: [[abort]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[aborto]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[aborto]]
*Swedish: [[abort]]