{{rfc|date=March 2006}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/æbəˈrɪdʒən(ə)l/}}
*{{SAMPA|/{b@'rIdZ@n(@)l/}}
*{{audio|en-uk-aboriginal.ogg|Audio (UK)}}

===Etymology===
Mid-17th century. Derivative of ''[[aborigines]]''

===Adjective===
{{en-adj}}

# First; original; [[indigenous]]; primitive; native; as, the ''aboriginal'' tribes of America.
#*Mantled o'er with ''aboriginal'' turf. - [[Wordsworth]].
# Of or pertaining to [[aborigines]]; as, a [[Hindoo]] of ''aboriginal'' blood.

====Translations====
;first; original; indigenous; primitive (1)
{{top}}
*French: [[indigène]]
*German: [[eingeboren]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[aborígene]]
{{bottom}}

;of or pertaining to aborigines
{{top}}
*French: [[indigène]]
*German: [[eingeboren]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[aborígene]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

''Note - Given that -al is an adjective suffix (and that Aboriginal was originally an adjective, Aborigines being the original noun), the usage of 'aboriginal' as a noun could be considered incorrect.''

# [an] Original inhabitant of any land; one of the [[aborigines]].
# [an] Animal or a plant native to the region.
#*It may well be doubted whether this frog is an ''aboriginal'' of these islands. - [[Darwin]].
# {{cattag|Proper noun}} [an] Aboriginal inhabitant of Australia.
# Any of the native languages spoken by Australian aborigines.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[туземец]] {{m}} (1), [[абориген]] {{m}} (3)
*Dutch: [[inboorling]] {{m}} (1), [[inboorlinge]] {{f}} (1)
*Finnish: [[alkuasukas]] (1), [[kotoperäinen]] (2), [[aboriginaali]] (3)
*French: [[indigène]] {{m}}, {{f}} (1,2)
*German: [[Eingeborener]] {{m}} (1)
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[bennszülött]]
*Interlingua: [[aborigine]]
*Italian: [[aborigeno]]
*Portuguese: [[aborígine]]
*Spanish: [[aborigen]]
{{bottom}}

[[fr:aboriginal]]
[[io:aboriginal]]
[[fi:aboriginal]]
[[vi:aboriginal]]
[[uk:aboriginal]]