==English==

{{rank|man|upon|may|71|about|its|time|only}}

===Etymology===
Old English [[onbutan|onbūtan]], from [[on#Old English|on]] + [[butan|būtan]] ‘outside’.

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /@"baUt/
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ə'bɑʊt/
*{{audio|en-us-about.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*{{audio|en-ca-about.ogg|(Canadian)}}
*Hyphenation: a&middot;bout

===Preposition===
'''about'''
#Around; all round; outside or on every side of.
#:'''[[Quotation]]s'''
#:*If thou beest not immortal look '''about''' you. - Shakespeare, ''Julius Caesar, II-iii''
#:*Bind them '''about''' thy neck. - ''[[Proverbs]] 3:3''
#In the [[immediate]] [[neighborhood]] of; in [[contiguity]] or [[proximity]] to; near, as to place; by or on (one's person).
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Have you much money '''about''' you? - [[Bulwer]]
#Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Lampoons ... were handed '''about''' the coffeehouses. - [[Macaulay]]
#:*Roving still '''about''' the world. - [[Milton]]
#Near; not far from; -- determining [[approximately]] time, size, quantity.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*To-morrow, '''about''' this time. - ''Exodus 9:18''
#:*She is '''about''' my height. - Shakespeare, ''Two Gentlemen of Verona, IV-iv''
#:*He went out '''about''' the third hour. - ''Matthew 20:3''
#:'''''Note:''''' This use passes into the [[adverbial]] sense.
#In [[concern]] with; engaged in; [[intent]] on.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I must be '''about''' my Father's business. - ''Luke 2:49''
#''(Before a [[verbal]] noun or an [[infinitive]]):'' On the point or [[verge]] of; going; in act of.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Paul was now '''about''' to open his mouth. - ''Acts 18:14''
#Concerning; with regard to; on account of; [[touching]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*To treat '''about''' thy ransom. - [[Milton]]
#:*She must have her way '''about''' Sarah. - [[Trollope]]

====Translations====
;Around (1)
{{top}}
*[[Chemehuevi]]: [[-vacɨ]]
*Danish: [[om]], [[omkring]], [[rundt om]]
*Dutch: [[om]], [[rond]]
*Esperanto: [[ĉirkaŭ]]
*Finnish: [[ympärillä]], [[ympäri]], [[joka puolella]]
*French:[[autour]],  
*German: [[um]] ([[herum]]
*Greek: [[περί]] (perí), [[γύρω]] από (jiró apó)
*[[Hebrew]]:  <span dir=rtl>[[סביב]] ל...</span>
*[[Kurdish]]: [[dorî]], [[dorî]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[rundt]], [[omkring]]
*[[Polish]]: [[dookoła]], [[wokoło]], [[wokół]]
*Portuguese: [[perto]]
*Russian: [[кругом]] (krugóm), [[вокруг]] (vokrúg)
*Romanian: [[despre]]
*Slovak: [[okolo#Slovak|okolo]]
*Spanish: [[alrededor]]
*Swedish: [[om]], [[runt]]
{{bottom}}

;In the immediate neighborhood of (2)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[på]]
*Dutch: [[omheen]], [[bij]], in de buurt
*Esperanto: [[ĉirkaŭ]], [[kun]] (2, ''on one's person'')
*French:[[aux environs]]
*[[Hebrew]]:  ב[[איזור]], ב[[סביבה|סביבת]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[dorî]]
*Norwegian: [[rundt]]
*Polish: [[przy]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[perto]]
*Romanian: [[lângă]]
*Russian: [[рядом]] (r'ádom), [[поблизости]] (poblízosti), [[недалеко]] (n'edal'ekó)
*Slovak: [[pri#Slovak|pri]]
*Spanish: [[cerca]]
*Swedish: [[på]]
{{bottom}}

;Over or upon different parts of (3)
{{top}}
*[[Chemehuevi]]: [[-vacɨ]]
*Danish: [[omkring]], [[rundt om]]
*Dutch: [[rond]]
*Esperanto: [[ĉirkaŭ]], [[ĉirkaŭe]] [[en]], [[tra]]
*Finnish: [[ympäri]]
*French:[[au-dessus]], [[par dessus]]
*German: [[über]]
*[[Hebrew]]:  [[על]]
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: [[dorî]], [[dorî]]
*Norwegian: [[rundt]]
*[[Polish]]: [[ponad]]
*Portuguese: [[por aí]]
*Russian: [[по]] (po)
*Slovak: [[okolo#Slovak|okolo]]
{{bottom}}

;Near (4)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[omkring]], [[cirka]]
*Dutch: [[ongeveer]]
*Esperanto: [[ĉirkaŭ]]
*Finnish: [[noin]], [[suunnilleen]]
*French:[[proche]], [[à côté]]
*German: [[ungefähr]]
*Greek: [[κοντά]] (kondá)
*[[Hebrew]]:  <span dir=rtl>(ב)[[סביבות]]</span>
*[[Kurdish]]: [[dorî]], [[nêzî]], [[teqrîben]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[rundt]]
*Polish: [[około]]
*Portuguese: [[por volta]]
*Russian: [[приблизительно]] (priblizít'el'no), [[примерно]] (prim'érno)
*Slovak: [[okolo#Slovak|okolo]]
*Spanish: [[cerca]]
{{bottom}}

;In concern with (5)
{{top}}
*Esperanto: [[atenta]] [[pri]]
*French:[[au sujet]], [[à propos]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[nêzî]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[om]]
*Russian: [[про]]
{{bottom}}

;On the point or verge of (6)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[til]], [[på vej til]]
*Dutch: op het punt staan
*Esperanto: [[-ota]]
*French:[[en train]], [[sur le point]]
*Finnish: [[lähes]], [[melkein]]
*[[Hebrew]]:  <span dir=rtl>[[עמד]] ל...</span>
*[[Kurdish]]: [[teqrîben]]
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[på veg til]]
*Portuguese: [[estar preste]]
*Russian: [[готов]]
*Spanish: [[a]] [[punto]] [[de]]
*Swedish: [[på väg att]]
{{bottom}}

;Concerning (7)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[om]], [[vedrørende]], [[angående]]
*Esperanto: [[pri]]
*Finnish: ''elative case''
*Greek: [[για]] (jiá), [[περί]] (perí)
*French:[[au sujet]], [[sur]]
*[[Hebrew]]:  <span dir=rtl>[[לגבי]], [[אודות]]</span>
*Norwegian: [[om]], [[angående]]
*Polish: [[o]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[sobre]]
*Russian: [[о]]
*Spanish: [[sobre]]
*Swedish: [[om]], [[angående]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[me]], [[afër]], [[përreth]], [[për]], [[rrotull]]
*{{ttbc|Bengali}}: (shawmparke)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sekitar]], [[sekeliling]], [[kira|kira-kira]], [[dekat]], [[tentang]]
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[dor]], [[li dor]], [[dor]], [[dorî]]
*{{ttbc|Lithuanian}}: [[apie]], [[aplink]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[గురించి]], [[గుఱించి]]

===Adverb===
'''about'''
#On all sides; around.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'Tis time to look '''about'''. - Shakespeare, ''King Lear, IV-vii''
#In circuit; [[circularly]]; by a [[circuitous]] way; around the outside; as, a mile '''about''', and a third of a mile across.
#Here and there; around; in one place and another.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Wandering '''about''' from house to house. - ''1 Timothy 5:13''
#Nearly; [[approximately]]; with close [[correspondence]], in quality, manner, degree, etc.; as, '''about''' as cold; '''about''' as high; -- also of quantity, number, time.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*There fell ... '''about''' three thousand men. - ''Exodus 22:28''
#To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on the opposite tack; as, to face '''about'''; to turn one's self ''about''.

====Derived terms====
*[[bring about]]
*[[come about]]
*[[go about]]
*[[roundabout]]
*[[set about]]
*[[walkabout]]

====Translations====
;On all sides (1)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[omkring]]
*Dutch: [[rond]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ĉirkaŭe]]
*Greek: [[γύρω]] (jíro)
*[[Hebrew]]: <span dir=rtl>[[מסביב]]</span>
*Norwegian: [[rundt]]
{{mid}}
*[[Polish]]: [[dookoła]], [[wokoło]], [[wokół]]
*Russian: [[вокруг]] (vokrúg)
*Swedish: [[runt]]
*Spanish: [[alrededor]]
{{bottom}}

;In circuit (2)
{{top}}
*Danish: i [[omkreds]]
*Dutch: [[rond]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ĉirkaŭe]]
*Greek: [[γύρω]] (jíro)
*[[Hebrew]]: <span dir=rtl>[[מסביב]]</span>
*Norwegian: [[rundt]]
{{mid}}
*[[Polish]]: [[wkoło]]
*Russian: [[в окружности]] (v okrúžnosti)
*Swedish: [[runt]]
*Spanish: [[alrededor]]
{{bottom}}

;Here and there (3)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[omkring]]
*Dutch: [[rond-]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[ĉirkaŭe]]
*[[Hebrew]]: <span dir=rtl>[[מסביב]], ב[[איזור]], ב[[סביבה]]</span>
*[[Polish]]: [[wszędzie]], [[wokoło]], [[tu i tam]], [[tu i ówdzie]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[туда-сюда]] (tudá-s'udá), [[взад-вперёд]] (vzad-vp'er'ód)
*Swedish: [[runt]]
*Spanish: [[alrededor]]
{{bottom}}

;Nearly (4)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[næsten]], [[omkring]]
*Dutch: [[ongeveer]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[proksimume]], [[ĉirkaŭ]]
*French: [[environ]]
*German: [[ungefähr]]
*Greek: [[σχεδόν]]
*[[Hebrew]]: <span dir=rtl>[[בערך]]</span>
{{mid}}
*Norwegian: [[nesten]]
*[[Polish]]: [[około]], [[niemal]], [[prawie]]
*Russian: [[почти]] (počtí)
*Swedish: [[ungefär]]
*Spanish: [[alrededor]]
{{bottom}}

;To a reserved position (5)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[omkring]]
*Dutch: [[om-]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[returnen]]
*[[Polish]]: [[wstecz]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[в обратную сторону]] (v obrátnuju stóronu), [[обратно]] (obrátno) 
*Slovene: [[o]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[gati]], , [[afërsisht]], [[pothuajse]], [[pranë]], [[nja]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[Cirkum]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[sekitar]], [[sekeliling]], [[kira|kira-kira]], [[dekat]], [[tentang]], [[kena|mengenai]], [[hendak]], [[akan]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[cerca de]]

[[Category:English prepositions]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]

[[am:about]]
[[ar:about]]
[[be:about]]
[[de:about]]
[[el:about]]
[[es:about]]
[[fr:about]]
[[gl:about]]
[[ko:about]]
[[hy:about]]
[[io:about]]
[[it:about]]
[[kk:about]]
[[hu:about]]
[[ja:about]]
[[pl:about]]
[[pt:about]]
[[ru:about]]
[[sm:about]]
[[simple:about]]
[[fi:about]]
[[ta:about]]
[[vi:about]]
[[tr:about]]
[[uk:about]]
[[zh:about]]