==English==

{{rank|year|dear|high|297|above|received|read|together}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''above'', ''aboven'', ''abuffe'', Anglo-Saxon ''abufon''; ''an'' (on) + ''be'' (by) + ''ufan'' (upward); cf. Gothic ''uf'' (under). See [[over]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPAchar|ə-bŭv', /əˈbʌv/}}, /<tt>@"bVv</tt>/
*:{{IPAchar|[[Rhymes:English:-ʌv|Rhymes: -ʌv]]}}

===Preposition===
'''above'''

#In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; — opposed to ''below'' or ''beneath''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Fowl that may fly ''above'' the earth. — ''Genesis 2:20''
#Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; [[surpassing]]; beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things ''above'' [[comprehension]]; ''above'' mean actions; conduct ''above'' reproach.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Thy worth ... is actions ''above'' my gifts. — [[Marlowe]]
#:*I saw in the way a light from heaven ''above'' the brightness of the sun. — ''Acts 36:13''
#[[Surpassing]] in number or quantity; more than; as, ''above'' a hundred. (Passing into the [[adverbial]] sense. (See adverb #4 below)

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[bo]]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[فوق]]}} (fauq)
*Dutch: [[boven]]
*French: [[au-dessus de]]
*German: [[über]]
*Hebrew: [[על]] (al)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[super]]
*Italian: [[sopra]]
*Latin: [[super]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: ...[[の]][[上に]] (...no ue ni)
*Korean: ...[[보다 위]] (...boda wi)
*Marathi: [[वरती]] (varatī)
*Polish: [[nad]]
*Portuguese: [[acima]], [[sobre#Portuguese|sobre]]
*Russian: [[над]] (nad)
*Spanish: [[sobre#Spanish|sobre]]
*Swedish: [[över]] (1), [[ovan]] (2)
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
:*'''[[above all]]''', before every other consideration; chiefly; in [[preference]] to other things.
:*'''[[Over and above]]''' ''([[preposition]] or [[adverb]])'', besides; in addition to.

====Translations==== 
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[bo]] (1), [[bo en behalwe]] (2)
*French: [[surtout]] (1), [[mentionné ci-dessus]] (2)
*German: [[vor allem]] (1), [[obenerwähnt]] (2)
*Hebrew: [[קודם כל]] (''l''), [[כתוב לעיל]] (''two'')
*[[Interlingua]]: [[super toto]] (1), [[jam mentionate]] (2)
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[soprattutto]] (1), [[suddetto]] (2)
*Portuguese: [[sobretudo]] (1), [[acima mencionado]] (2)
*Spanish: [[sobretodo]] (1), [[antedicho]] (2)
*Swedish: [[tidigare]], [[högre]], [[mer än]]
*Tagalog: [[ibabaw]] (1), [[itaas]] (2)
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''above'''

#In a higher place; [[overhead]]; into or from heaven; as, the clouds ''above''.
#Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a [[foregoing]] page.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That was said ''above''. — [[Dryden]]
#Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court ''above''.
#More than; as, ''above'' five hundred were present.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[bo]]
*French: [[pair]]
*German: [[Gleichheit]] {{f}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[super le par]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[sopra par]] (''golf'')
*Portuguese: [[par]]
*Spanish: [[igualdad]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''above'''

#''Above'' is often used [[elliptical]]ly as an adjective by [[omit]]ting the word ''mentioned'', ''quoted'', or the like; as, the ''above'' observations, the ''above'' reference, the ''above'' articles.

====Translations==== 
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[bogenoemde]]
*French: [[sur]], [[vers le haut de]]
*German: [[auf]],[[herauf]]
*Hebrew: [[על]] (al)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[in alto de]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[su#Italian|su]]
*Portuguese: [[acima de]]
*Spanish: [[encima de]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''above'''

#An indefinite higher place
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The waters that come down from ''above''. — ''Joshua 3:13''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [[bo]]
*French: [[au-dessus de]]
*German: [[über]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[super supra]]
*Italian: [[sopra]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[sobre]]
*Spanish: [[sobre]]
*Swedish: [[ovan]]
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
"Above" is also used as the first part of a compound in the sense of ''before'', ''previously''; as, ''above''-cited, ''above''-described, ''above''-[[mentioned]], ''above''-named, ''above''said, ''above''specified, ''above''[[-written]], ''above''[[-given]].


[[Category:Positive words]]
[[Category:English prepositions]]

[[gl:Above]]
[[ko:Above]]
[[io:Above]]
[[it:above]]
[[pt:Above]]
[[sm:Above]]
[[fi:above]]
[[uk:Above]]