==English==
===Etymology 1===
From French ''absent'', from Latin ''absent-'', the stem of ''[[absentis]]'', present participle of ''[[abesse]]'', "to be away from", formed from ''[[ab]]'' + ''[[esse]]'' "to be".

====Pronunciation====
* ''[[RP]] & US:'' {{AHD|ăb'sənt}}, {{IPA|/ˈæbsənt/}}, {{SAMPA|/{bs@nt/}}

====Adjective====
'''absent'''
# Being [[away]] from a place; [[withdrawn]] from a place; not [[present]].
#* Expecting ''absent'' friends. - Shakespeare, ''All's Well That Ends Well, II-iii''
# Not [[exist]]ing; [[lack]]ing; as, the part was [[rudimental]] or ''absent''.
# [[inattentive|Inattentive]] to what is passing; [[absent-minded]]; [[preoccupied]]; as, an ''absent'' air.
#* What is commonly called an ''absent'' man is commonly either a very weak or a very affected man. - Chesterfield

====Synonyms====
*[[Absent]], [[Abstracted]]. These words both [[imply]] a want of attention to surrounding objects. 
*We speak of a man as ''absent'' when his thoughts wander [[unconsciously]] from present [[scenes]] or [[topics]] of discourse; 
*We speak of him as ''abstracted'' when his mind (usually for a brief period) is drawn off from present things by some [[weighty]] matter for reflection. 
*''Absence'' of mind is usually the result of loose habits of thought; 
*''Abstraction'' commonly [[arises]] either from [[engrossing]] interests and cares, or from [[unfortunate]] habits of association.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[缺席]]
*Dutch: [[afwezig]]
*French: absent
*German: [[abwesend]]
*[[Ido]]: [[absenta]]
*Indonesian: [[absen]], [[tidak]] [[hadir]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[absente]]
*Italian: [[assente]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[欠席]] (けっせき, kesseki)
*Latin: [[absens]]
*Norwegian: [[fraværende]]
*[[Novial]]: [[absenti]]
*Portuguese: [[ausente]]
*Spanish: [[ausente]]
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From Old and modern French ''[[absenter]]'' or from late Latin ''[[absentare]]'' "keep away", "be away".

====Pronunciation====
* ''[[RP]] & US:'' {{AHD|ăbsĕnt'}}, {{IPA|/æbˈsɛnt/}}, {{SAMPA|{b"sEnt}}

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|absent||}}

# {{transitive}} To [[go away]] from a place; to [[leave]] -- used with the [[reflexive]] pronoun.
#:*If after due summons any member ''absents'' himself, he is to be fined. - Addison
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To [[withhold]] from being present
#:*Go; for thy stay, not free, ''absents'' thee more. - Milton

====Translations====
'''to leave'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[zich verwijderen]] (van)
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to be not present'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[afwezig]] [[zijn]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[et:absent]]
[[el:absent]]
[[fr:absent]]
[[gl:absent]]
[[io:absent]]
[[it:absent]]
[[hu:absent]]
[[nl:absent]]
[[pt:absent]]
[[fi:absent]]
[[uk:absent]]
[[zh:absent]]