===Etymology===
Latin ''absolvere'' to set free, to [[absolve]]; ''ab'' + ''solvere'' to loose. See [[Assoil]], [[Solve]].
===Transitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: [[Absolved]] <br>
Present participle: [[Absolving]]
#To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or [[responsibility]], or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it would be sin or guilt to [[violate]]; to [[pronounce]] free; as, to ''absolve'' a subject from his [[allegiance]]; to ''absolve'' an [[offender]], which amounts to an [[acquittal]] and [[remission]] of his punishment.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Halifax was ''absolved'' by a majority of fourteen. - [[Macaulay]]
#To free from a penalty; to [[pardon]]; to [[remit]] (a sin); -- said of the sin or guilt.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*In his name I ''absolve'' your perjury. - [[Gibbon]]
#''(Obsolete):'' To finish; to accomplish.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The work begun, how soon ''absolved''. - [[Milton]]
#To resolve or [[explain]]. [Obs.]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*We shall not ''absolve'' the doubt. - [[Sir T. Browne]]
===Synonyms===
*To [[Absolve]], [[Exonerate]], [[Acquit]]. 
*We speak of a man as ''absolved'' from something that binds his [[conscience]], or [[involves]] the charge of [[wrongdoing]]; as, to ''absolve'' from allegiance or from the obligation of an oath, or a promise. 
*We speak of a person as ''exonerated'', when he is [[released]] from some burden which had rested upon him; as, to ''exonerate'' from [[suspicion]], to ''exonerate'' from blame or [[odium]]. It implies a [[purely]] moral acquittal. 
*We speak of a person as ''acquitted'', when a decision has been made in his favor with reference to a specific charge, either by a jury or by [[disinterested]] persons; as, he was ''acquitted'' of all [[participation]] in the crime.