==English==

===Etymology===
Latin ''[[absolutus]]'' ([[unconditional]]), past participle of ''[[absolvere]]''. Compare French ''absolu''. See [[absolve]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈæbsəˌluːt, ˌæbsəˈluːt/}}

===Adjective===
'''absolute'''

# Loosed from any [[limitation]] or [[condition]]; [[uncontrolled]]; [[unrestricted]]; [[unconditional]]; as, ''absolute'' [[authority]], [[monarchy]], [[sovereignty]], an ''absolute'' [[promise]] or [[command]].
#: ''absolute'' [[power]]
#: an ''absolute'' [[monarch]]
# [[complete|Complete]] in [[itself]]; [[perfect]]; [[consummate]]; [[faultless]].
#: ''absolute'' [[perfection]]
#: ''absolute'' beauty
#*So ''absolute'' she seems, And in herself complete. —[[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
# Viewed apart from [[modifying]] influences or without comparison with other objects; actual; real; — opposed to ''relative'' and {{compar}}; as, ''absolute'' motion; ''absolute'' time or space.
#: ''Absolute'' rights and duties are such as [[pertain]] to man in a state of nature as [[contradistinguished]] from ''relative'' rights and duties, or such as pertain to him in his social relations.
# Loosed from, or [[unconnected]] by, [[dependence]] on any other being; [[self-existent]]; [[self-sufficing]].
#: '''''Note:''''' In this sense God is called ''the Absolute'' by the [[Theist]]. The term is also applied by the [[Pantheist]] to the [[universe]], or the total of all existence, as only capable of relations in its parts to each other and to the whole, and as dependent for its existence and its phenomena on its [[mutual]]ly [[depending]] forces and their laws.
# Capable of being thought or [[conceived]] by itself alone; [[unconditioned]]; [[non-relative]].
#: '''''Note:''''' It is in dispute among [[philosopher]]s whether the term, in this sense, is not applied to a mere [[logical]] [[fiction]] or [[abstraction]], or whether ''the absolute'', as thus [[defined]], can be known, as a reality, by the human intellect.
#*To Cusa we can indeed articulately trace, word and thing, the recent philosophy of ''the absolute''. —[[w:William Hamilton|William Hamilton]]
# {{rare}} Positive; clear; certain; not doubtful.
#*I am ''absolute'' ’t was very Cloten. —Shakespeare, ''Cymbeline, IV,ii''
# {{rare}} [[Authoritative]]; [[peremptory]].
#*The peddler stopped, and tapped her on the head, With ''absolute'' forefinger, brown and ringed. —[[w:Elizabeth Barrett Browning|Elizabeth Barrett Browning]]
# {{chemistry}} Pure; [[unmixed]]; as, ''absolute'' alcohol.
# {{grammar}} Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in government; as, the case ''absolute''. See ''ablative absolute'', under [[ablative]].

====Synonyms====
*Positive; [[peremptory]]; certain; unconditional; [[unlimited]]; unrestricted; [[unqualified]]; arbitrary; [[despotic]]; [[autocratic]].

====Derived terms====
*[[absolute curvature]] {{Geometry}}: that [[curvature]] of a curve of double curvature, which is measured in the [[osculating]] plane of the curve.
*[[absolute equation]] {{Astronomy}}: the sum of the [[optic]] and [[eccentric]] [[equations]].
*[[absolute music]] {{Music}}: music written for its own sake, with no direct reference to anything outside itself. It has no words and does not depict a story.
*[[absolute space]] {{Physics}}: space considered without relation to material limits or objects.
*[[absolute terms]] {{Algebra}}: such as are known, or which do not contain the unknown quantity. —[[Davies & Peck]]
*[[absolute temperature]] {{Physics}}: the temperature as measured on a scale determined by certain general [[thermo-dynamic]] principles, and [[reckoned]] from the absolute zero.
*[[absolute zero]] {{Physics}}: the beginning, or zero point, in the scale of absolute temperature. It is equivalent to &minus;273.15 degrees [[Celsius]] or &minus;459.67 degrees [[Fahrenheit]]. See also [[kelvin]] and [[degree Rankine]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[绝对]]
*Dutch: [[absoluut]]
*Finnish: [[absoluuttinen]]
*French: [[absolu]]
*German: [[absolut]]
*[[Ido]]: [[absoluta]]
*Indonesian: [[mutlak]]
*Interlingua: absolute
*Italian: [[assoluto]]
*Japanese: [[絶対]] (ぜったい, zettai)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[무제한의]] (mujehan-ui)
*Norwegian: [[absolutt]]
*[[Novial]]: [[absoluti]]
*Portuguese: [[absoluto]]
*Russian: [[абсолютный]] (absoljútnyj)
*Spanish: [[absoluto]]
*Swedish: [[absolut]] (1,3)
*Turkish: [[kesin]]
*Volapük: [[leverik]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''absolute'''

# {{Geometry}} In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at [[infinity]]; in space of three [[dimensions]], the imaginary circle at infinity.
# {{Grammar}} The first of the [[three degrees of comparison]].
# That which is independent of context-dependent interpretation, inviolate, fundamental (referring to Adjective Definition 4)
:as in ''moral abolutes''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: absolute {{n}}	
*French: [[absolu]] {{m}}
*German: [[Positiv]] {{m}} (2)
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[положительный|положительная]] [[степень]] (položítel’naja stépen’) {{f}} (2)
*Spanish: [[positivo]] {{m}} (2)
*Swedish: [[positiv]] {{n}} (2)
{{bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[el:absolute]]
[[fr:absolute]]
[[gl:absolute]]
[[io:absolute]]
[[it:absolute]]
[[la:absolute]]
[[hu:absolute]]
[[pt:absolute]]
[[fi:absolute]]
[[uk:absolute]]