==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[absorbere]]'', which is formed from ''[[ab]]'' + ''[[sorbere]]'' "to suck in", akin to Greek; compare French ''[[absorber]]''.

===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/əbˈzɔːb/; /əbˈsɔːb/}}
* ''US:''
** {{IPA|/æbˈzɔːrb/; /æbˈsɔːrb/}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|absorb||}}

# {{transitive}} To [[include]] so that it no longer has [[separate]] existence; to [[swallow up]]; to [[engulf]]; to [[overwhelm]]; to cause to [[disappear]] as if by [[swallowing]] up; to [[use up]]; to [[incorporate]]; to [[assimilate]].
#* Dark oblivion soon '''absorbs''' them all. - Cowper
#* The large cities '''absorb''' the wealth and fashion. - W. Irving
# {{transitive}} To [[suck up]]; to [[drink in]]; to [[imbibe]]; as a [[sponge]] or as the [[lacteals]] of the body. - Bacon
# {{transitive}} To [[engross]] or [[engage]] wholly; to [[occupy]] fully; as, '''absorbed''' in study or in the [[pursuit]] of wealth.
# {{transitive}} To [[use up]]; to [[consume]].
# {{transitive}} To [[endure]].
# {{transitive}} To take up by [[chemical]] or [[physical]] action.
#: ''Heat, light, and electricity are '''absorbed''' in the substances into which they pass.''

====Synonyms====
* [[engross]]
* [[swallow up]]
* [[engulf]]
<!--These words agree in one general idea, that of ''completely taking up''. They are chiefly used in a figurative sense and may be distinguished by a reference to their [[etymology]]. 
*We speak of a person as ''absorbed'' (literally, drawn in, swallowed up) in study or some other employment of the highest interest. 
*We speak of a person as ''ebgrossed'' (literally, seized upon in the ''gross'', or wholly) by something which [[occupies]] his whole time and thoughts, as the [[acquisition]] of wealth, or the [[attainment]] of honor. 
*We speak of a person (under a [[stronger]] image) as ''swallowed up'' and lost in that which completely occupies his thoughts and feelings, as in grief at the death of a friend, or in the [[multiplied]] cares of life. 
*We speak of a person as ''engulfed'' in that which (like a gulf) takes in all his hopes and interests; as, ''engulfed'' in [[misery]], ruin, etc.
*:*That grave question which had begun to ''absorb'' the Christian mind -- the marriage of the clergy. - Milman
*:*Too long hath love ''engrossed'' Britannia's stage, And sunk to softness all our tragic rage. - Tickell
*:*Should not the sad occasion ''swallow up'' My other cares? - Addison
*:*And in destruction's river ''Engulf'' and swallow those. - Sir P. Sidney-->

====Translations====
'''to include so that it no longer has separate existence'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[absorberen]], (in zich) [[opnemen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to suck up or drink in'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[absorberen]], [[opzuigen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to occupy'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[verdiepen]], [[bezig houden]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to use up'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[consumeren]], [[opgebruiken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to endure'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[ondergaan]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to take up by chemical or physical action'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[absorberen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Translations to be checked====
{{checktrans}}
* French: [[absorber]], [[éponger]]
* German: [[absorbieren]]
* [[Ido]]: [[absorbar]]
* Indonesian: [[serap]], [[serap|menyerap]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[absorber]]
* Italian: [[assorbere]]
* Norwegian: [[suge inn]], [[oppta]]
* [[Novial]]: [[absorba]]
* Portuguese: [[absorver]]
* Romanian: [[a absorbi]]
* Spanish: [[absorber]]



[[fr:absorb]]
[[gl:Absorb]]
[[io:Absorb]]
[[it:absorb]]
[[ja:absorb]]
[[pt:Absorb]]