==English==

===Etymology 1===
From Old French ''abstract'', or from Latin ''[[abstractus]]'', past participle of ''[[abstrahere]]'', formed from ''[[abs-]]'' "away" + ''[[trahere]]'' "to draw".

====Pronunciation====
*{{AHD|ăb'străkt"}}, {{IPA|/ˈæbstrækt/}}, {{SAMPA|/"{b%str{kt/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# An [[abridgement]] or [[summary]].
#* [[w:Watts|Watts]] - An '''abstract''' of every treatise he had read.
# Something that [[concentrate]]s in itself the qualities of something else.
#* [[w:Ford|Ford]] - Man, the '''abstract''' Of all perfection, which the workmanship Of Heaven hath modeled.
# An [[abstraction]]; an [[#Adjective|abstract]] term.
# {{art}} An abstract work of art.
# That which is abstract.
#* [[w:John Stuart Mill|John Stuart Mill]] - The [[concretes]] "father" and "son" have, or might have, the '''abstracts''' "paternity" and "filiety".
# {{medicine}} A [[powder]]ed solid [[extract]] of a [[vegetable]] substance mixed with sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract represents two parts of the original substance.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''statement summarizing the important points of a text''): [[abridgment]], [[compendium]], [[epitome]], [[synopsis]]

=====Derived terms=====
*[[abstract of title]]

=====Translations=====
'''an abrigement or summary'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[resum]], {{m}}
*Croatian: [[sažetak#Croatian|sažetak]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[samenvatting]], [[korte inhoud]]
*French: [[abstract#French|abstract]] {{m}}, [[résumé]] {{m}}
*German: [[Zusammenfassung]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[estratto]] {{m}}, [[sunto]] {{m}}, [[compendio]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[概要]] ([[がいよう]], gaiyō), [[要約]] (yōyaku)
*Portuguese: [[resumo]] {{m}}, [[sumário]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[конспект]] {{m}}, [[реферат]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[referat]] {{n}}, [[sammandrag]] {{n}}, [[sammanfattning]] {{c}}, [[utdrag]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''something that concentrates in itself the qualities of something else'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[xifra]], {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''an abstraction'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[abstracció]], {{f}}
*Croatian: [[apstrakcija#Croatian|apstrakcija]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[abstractie]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[抽象的]]な (ちゅうしょうてきな, chūshōtekina)
{{bottom}}

'''an abstract work of art'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|abstract]] [[kunstwerk]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[抽象派]]の (ちゅうしょうはの, chūshōhano)
{{bottom}}

'''that which is abstract'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: (een) [[#Dutch|abstract]] [[iets]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[抽象的]]な (ちゅうしょうてきな, chūshōtekina)
{{bottom}}

'''an extract of a vegetable substance'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[uittreksel]]
*Croatian: [[ekstrakt#Croatian|ekstrakt]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[抽出]] (ちゅうしゅつ, chūshutsu)
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Auszug]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[abstrak]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[abstracto]], [[summario]]
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[개요]] (gaeyo)
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[utdrag]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Novial}}: [[abstraktu]] or [[abstraktetu]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[extracto]]

====Adjective====
{{en-adj}}

# {{obsolete}} [[extract|Extracted]].
# Considered apart from any application to a particular object; [[remove]]d from; apart from; [[separate]]; [[abstracted]].
#* '''17th century''': [[w:Norris|Noris]], ''The Oxford Dictionary'' - The more '''abstract''' we are from the body ... the more fit we shall be to behold divine light.
# Absent in mind.
# Apart from [[practice]] or [[reality]]; not [[concrete]]; [[ideal]]; [[vague]]; [[theoretical]]; [[impersonal]].
# Difficult to understand; [[abstruse]].
# {{art}} Free from representational qualities.
# {{logic}} [[general|General]] (as opposed to [[particular]]).
#* [[w:John Stuart Mill|John Stuart Mill]] - A concrete name is a name which stands for a thing; an '''abstract''' name which stands for an attribute of a thing. A practice has grown up in more modern times, which, if not introduced by Locke, has gained currency from his example, of applying the expression "'''abstract''' name" to all names which are the result of abstraction and generalization, and consequently to all general names, instead of confining it to the names of attributes.

=====Synonyms=====
*(''not applied or practical''): [[conceptual]], [[theoretical]]
*(''insufficiently factual''): [[formal]]
*(''difficult to understand''): [[abstruse]]

=====Antonyms=====
*(''not applied or practical''): [[applied]], [[practical]]
*(''considered apart from concrete existence''): [[concrete]]

=====Derived terms=====
*[[abstractly]]
*[[abstractness]]
*[[abstract idea]]
*[[abstract noun]]
*[[abstract numbers]]
*[[abstract terms]]

=====Translations=====
'''extracted'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[onttrokken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''separate'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afgezonderd]], [[gescheiden]]
*French: [[abstrait]]
*Italian: [[teorico]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[abstrato]]
*Russian: [[абстрактный]] (abstráktnyj)
*Swedish: [[abstrakt]]
{{bottom}}

'''absent in mind'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afwezig]], [[verstrooid]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''apart from practice or reality; not concrete'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[abstracte]]
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|abstract]], [[theoretisch]]
*German: [[abstrakt]]
*Italian: [[astratto]], [[teorico]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[abstrato]]
*Russian: [[абстрактный]] (abstráktnyj)
*Swedish: [[abstrakt]], [[teoretisk]]
{{bottom}}

'''difficult to understand'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[abstracte]]
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|abstract]], [[vaag]], [[algemeen]]
*French: [[abstrait]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[astruso]]
*Swedish: [[djupsinnig]], [[svårfattlig]]
{{bottom}}

'''free from representational qualities'''
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[abstracte]]
{{mid}}
*Dutch: [[#Dutch|abstract]]
{{bottom}}

'''general as opposed to particular'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[algemeen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Estonian}}: [[abstraktne]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[abstrak]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[abstracte]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[抽象]] ([[ちゅうしょう]], chūshō)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[추상적인]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[abstrakt]]
*{{ttbc|Novial}}: [[abstrakti]] or [[abstraktet]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[abstracto]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[soyut]], [[abstre]]

===Etymology 2===
From Latin ''abstractum'', past participle of ''[[abstrahere]]''; also from the adjective.

====Pronunciation====
*{{AHD|ăb"străkt'}}, {{IPA|/əbˈstrækt/}}, {{SAMPA|/%{b"str{kt/}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To [[separate]]; to [[remove]]; to [[take away]].
#* [[w:Walter Scott|Walter Scott]] - He was incapable of forming any opinion or resolution '''abstracted''' from his own prejudices.
# {{transitive}} To [[withdraw]].
# {{transitive}} (''euphemistic'') To [[steal]]; to take away; to [[remove]] without permission.
#* [[w:W. Black|W. Black]] - Von Rosen had quietly '''abstracted''' the bearing-reins from the harness.
# {{transitive}} {{art}} To create [[artistic]] abstractions of.
# {{transitive}} To [[summarize]]; to [[abridge]]; to [[epitomize]].
# {{transitive}} To [[consider]] abstractly; to [[contemplate]] separately or by itself.
# {{transitive}} To draw off (interest or attention).
#: ''He was wholly '''abstracted''' by other objects.''
#* [[w:William Blackwood|William Blackwood]], ''Blackwood's Magazine'' - The young stranger had been '''abstracted''' and silent.
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To [[extract]] by means of [[distillation]].
# {{intransitive}} To [[withdraw]] oneself; to [[retire]].
# {{intransitive}} {{rare}} To perform the process of [[abstraction]].
#* [[w:Berkeley|Berkeley]] - I own myself able to '''abstract''' in one sense.
# {{intransitive}} {{computing}} To produce an [[abstraction]], usually by [[refactoring]] existing code. Generally used with "out".
#: ''He '''abstracted''' out the square root function.''

=====Synonyms=====
*(''to remove, separate, take away, or withdraw''): [[remove]], [[separate]], [[take away]], [[withdraw]]
*(''to abridge, epitomize, or summarize''): [[abridge]], [[epitomize]], [[summarize]]
*(''to filch, purloin, or steal''): [[filch]], [[purloin]], [[steal]]

=====Derived terms=====
*[[abstractable]]
*[[abstracted]]
*[[abstracter]]
*[[abstractor]]

=====Related terms=====
*[[abstraction]]
*[[abstractive]]
*[[abstractum]]

=====Translations=====
'''to separate; to remove; to take away'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afzonderen]]
*French: [[abstraire]]
*Italian: [[rimuovere]], [[sottrarre]], [[estrarre]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[abstrair]]
*Swedish: [[abstrahera]], [[skilja av]], [[skilja ut]], [[ta bort]]
{{bottom}}

'''to withdraw'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[terugtrekken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to steal'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[ontvreemden]]
*Italian: [[sottrarre]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[roubar]]
*Swedish: [[knycka]], [[stjäla]]
{{bottom}}

'''to create an artistic abstraction of'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[abstraheren]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to abridge, epitomize, or summarize'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[samenvatten]]
*French: [[abstraire]]
*Italian: [[riassumere]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[resumir]], [[sumariar]]
*Swedish: göra [[sammandrag]] av, [[sammanfatta]],
{{bottom}}

'''to consider abstractly'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[abstraheren]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to draw off'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afleiden]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to extract by means of distillation'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[onttrekken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to withdraw oneself'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[zich terugtrekken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to perform the process of abstraction'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[abstraheren]]
*Italian: [[astrarre]]
*Novial: [[abstrakte]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[абстрагировать]] (abstragírovat')
*Swedish: [[abstrahera]]
{{bottom}}

======Translations to be checked======
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|German}}: [[entziehen]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[abstraher]]
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[분리]]하다, [[추출]]하다
*{{ttbc|Novial}}: [[abstrakte]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[extractar]]
*{{ttbc|Turkish}}: [[soyutlamak]]

===References===
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[ar:abstract]]
[[be:abstract]]
[[el:abstract]]
[[fr:abstract]]
[[io:abstract]]
[[id:abstract]]
[[it:abstract]]
[[hu:abstract]]
[[nl:abstract]]
[[pt:abstract]]
[[fi:abstract]]
[[sv:abstract]]
[[vi:abstract]]
[[uk:abstract]]
[[zh:abstract]]