==English==

===Etymology===
Compare French ''abstraction''. See the adjective [[abstract]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}} {{wikipedia}}

# The act of [[abstracting]], separating, or [[withdrawing]], or the state of being [[withdrawn]]; [[withdrawal]].
#*'''1848''': [[w:John Stuart Mill|J. S. Mill]], ''Principles of Political Economy with some of their Applications to Social Philosophy'' - The cancelling of the debt would be no destruction of wealth, but a transfer of it: a wrongful '''abstraction''' of wealth from certain members of the community, for the profit of the government, or of the tax-payers.
# {{philosophy}} The act of leaving out of consideration one or more properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis.
#:'''Note:''' ''Abstraction'' is necessary to [[classification]], by which organisms are grouped into [[genera]] and [[specie]]s according to the qualities they share.
#*Sir W. Hamilton - '''Abstraction''' is no positive act: it is simply the negative of attention.
# An idea or [[notion]] of an abstract, or [[theoretical]] nature; as, ''to fight for mere '''abstractions'''''.
# A separation from [[worldly]] objects; a [[recluse]] life; as, ''a [[hermit's]] '''abstraction'''''.
# Absence or [[absorption]] of mind; [[inattention]] to present objects.
# The taking [[surreptitiously]] for one's own use part of the property of another; [[purloining]]. - "[Modern]"
# {{Chemistry}} A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation. - [[Nicholson]]
# {{computing}} Any generalization technique that ignores or hides details to capture some kind of commonality between different [[instances]] for the purpose of controlling the intellectual complexity of [[engineered]] systems, particularly [[software]] systems.
# {{computing}} Any intellectual construct produced through the technique of abstraction.

====Derived terms====
* [[abstractional]]
* [[abstractionism]]
* [[abstractionist]]

===Translations===
*[[Catalan]]: [[abstracció]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[abstractie]] {{f}}
*French: [[abstraction]] {{f}}
*German: [[Abstraktion]] {{f}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abstraction]]
*[[Italian]]: [[astrazione]] {{f}}
*[[Novial]]: [[abstraktione]]
*Polish: abstrakcja {{f}}
*Spanish: [[abstracción]] {{f}}

[[et:abstraction]]
[[fr:abstraction]]
[[zh:abstraction]]