{{webster}}
{{rfc}}
==English==
===Etymology===
*Noun: {{F.}} ''[[abus]]'', {{L.}} ''[[abusus]]'', from ''[[abuti]]''; see also the etymology for the verb
*Verb: {{F.}} ''[[abuser]]''; {{L.}} ''[[abusus]]'', past participle of ''[[abuti]]'', to abuse, to misuse, from ''[[ab]]'' + ''[[uti]]'', to use

===Pronunciation===
*Noun:
**[[AHD]]: əbyo͞os'
**[[IPA]]: /əˈbjus/ (''US''), /əˈbjuːs/ (''[[RP]]'')
**[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>@"bjus</tt>/ (''US''), /<tt>@"bju:s</tt>/ (''RP'')
**{{audio|en-us-abuse-noun.ogg|Audio (US)}}

*Verb:
**AHD: əbyo͞oz'
**IPA: /ə'bjuz/ (''US''), /əˈbjuːz/ (''RP'')
**SAMPA: /<tt>@"bjuz</tt>/ (''US''), /<tt>@"bju:z</tt>/ (''RP'')
**{{audio|en-us-abuse-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
'''abuse'''

#[[Improper]] [[treatment]] or use; application to a wrong or bad purpose; [[misuse]]; as, an '''abuse''' of our natural powers; an '''abuse''' of civil rights, or of privileges or advantages; an '''abuse''' of language.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Liberty may be endangered by the '''abuses''' of liberty, as well as by the '''abuses''' of power - [[Madison]]
#Physical ill treatment; injury.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Rejoice ... at the '''abuse''' of Falstaff. - Shakespeare, ''Merry Wives of Windsor, V,iii''
#A corrupt practice or custom; offense; crime; fault; as, the '''abuses''' in the civil service.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*'''Abuse''' after disappeared without a struggle.. - [[Macaulay]]
#[[Vituperative]] words; coarse, [[insulting]] speech; [[abusive]] language; [[virulent]] [[condemnation]]; [[reviling]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The two parties, after exchanging a good deal of '''abuse''', came to blows. - [[Macaulay]]
#[[Violation]]; rape; as, '''abuse''' of a female child.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Or is it some '''abuse''', and no such thing? - Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, IV,vii'' 

====Synonyms====
*[[invective]]
*[[contumely]]
*[[reproach]]
*[[scurrility]]
*[[insult]]
*[[opprobrium]]

====Usage Note====
''Abuse and [[invective]] distinguished''.  ''Abuse'' is generally [[prompted]] by anger, and vented in harsh and [[unseemly]] words. It is more personal and coarse than ''invective''. ''Abuse'' generally takes place in private quarrels; ''invective'' in writing or public [[discussions]]. ''Invective'' may be conveyed in [[refined]] language and [[dictated]] by [[indignation]] against what is [[blameworthy]]. - [[C. J. Smith]] 

====Translations====
*Danish: [[misbrug]] 
*Dutch: [[misbruik]] ''n''
*French: [[abus]] ''m''
*German: [[Mißbrauch]] ''n''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[abuso#Interlingua|abuso]]
*Italian: [[abuso#Italian|abuso]]
*Norwegian: [[misbruk]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[abuso#Portuguese|abuso]]
*Romanian: [[abuz]] ''n''
*Spanish: [[abuso#Spanish|abuso]] ''m''

====Derived expressions====
*[[abuse of distress]]

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|abus|e||}}

#To put to a wrong use; to [[misapply]]; to use improperly; to misuse; to put to a bad use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to [[pervert]]; as, to '''abuse''' [[inherited]] gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to '''abuse''' one's authority.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*This principle (if one may so '''abuse''' the word) shoots rapidly into popularity - [[Froude]]
#To use ill; to [[maltreat]]; to act [[injuriously]] to; to [[punish]] or to tax [[excessively]]; to hurt; as, to '''abuse''' [[prisoners]], to '''abuse''' one's powers, one's [[patience]].
#To [[revile]]; to reproach [[coarsely]]; to [[disparage]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The ... tellers of news '''abused''' the general - [[Macaulay]]
#To [[dishonor]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*your renowned name: shall flight abuse it? - Shakespeare, ''Henry VI, pt 3, IV,v''
#To [[violate]]; to [[ravish]] - [[Spenser]]
#''(Obsolete):'' To deceive; to [[impose]] on
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Their eyes red and staring, cozened with a moist cloud, and '''abused''' by a double object - [[Jer. Taylor]]

====Synonyms====
*[[maltreat]]
*[[injure]]
*[[revile]]
*[[reproach]]
*[[vilify]]
*[[vituperate]]
*[[asperse]]
*[[traduce]]
*[[malign]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[misbruiken]]
*French: [[abuser]]
*German: [[Mißbrauchen]]
*Italian: [[abusare]]
*Norwegian: [[misbruke]], [[skjelle ut]], [[misbruk]]
*Russian: [[оскорблять]]
*Spanish: [[abusar]]

[[it:abuse]]
[[he:Abuse]]
[[ru:Abuse]]
[[Category:English heteronyms]]