==English==

{{rank|ordinary|forms|complete|949|access|ways|grave|serious}}

===Etymology===
From {{F.}} ''[[accès]]'' or from {{L.}} ''[[accessus]]'', past participle of ''[[accedere]]'' "to accede".

===Pronunciation===
*ăkʹsĕs, /ˈæksɛs/, /<tt>"{ksEs</tt>/

===Noun===
{{en-noun|es|-}}
#{{uncountable}} A [[way]] or [[means]] of [[approach]]ing or [[enter]]ing; an [[entrance]]; a [[passage]].
#* All '''access''' was thronged. - Milton
#{{uncountable}} The act of approaching or entering; an [[advance]].
#{{uncountable}} The right or ability of approaching or entering; [[admittance]]; [[admission]]; [[accessibility]].
#* I did repel his fetters, and denied His '''access''' to me. - Shakespeare, ''Hamlet, II-i''
#{{uncountable}} Admission to [[sexual]] [[intercourse]].
#* During coverture, '''access''' of the husband shall be presumed, unless the contrary be shown. - Blackstone
#{{countable}} An [[increase]] by [[addition]]; [[accession]]; as, an '''access''' of territory.
#* I, from the influence of thy looks, receive '''access''' in every virtue. - Milton
#{{countable}} An [[onset]], [[attack]], or [[fit]] of disease; an [[ague]] fit.
#:*The first '''access''' looked like an apoplexy. - Burnet
#{{countable}} An [[outburst]] of an [[emotion]]; a [[paroxysm]]; a fit of passion; as, an '''access''' of fury.
#{{uncountable}} {{law}} The right of a [[non-custodial parent]] to visit their [[child]].
#{{uncountable}} {{computing}} The process of locating data in memory.
#{{uncountable}} {{internet}} [[connection|Connection]] to or [[communication]] with a [[computer program]] or to the [[Internet]].

====Derived terms====
*[[direct access]]
*[[random access]]

====Related terms====
* [[accessary]]
* [[accessible]]
* [[accessibility]]
* [[accessibly]]
* [[accession]]
* [[accessory]]

====Translations====
'''a way or means of approaching'''
{{top}}
*Czech: [[přístup]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[toegang]], [[toegangsweg]], [[passage]]
*Finnish: [[pääsy]]
*French: [[accès]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[accesso]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[acesso]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[ingång]] {{c}}, [[passage]] {{c}}, [[väg]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''the act of approaching or entering'''
{{top}}
*Czech: [[přístup]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[benadering]]
*Finnish: [[pääsy]]
*French: [[approche]] {{f}} (''act of approaching''), [[entrée#French|entrée]] {{f}} (''act of entering'')
*Italian: [[accesso]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[åtkomst]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''the right or ability of approaching or entering'''
{{top}}
*Czech: [[přístup]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[toegang]], [[toegangsrecht]], [[toelating]]
*Finnish: [[pääsy]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[acesso]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[tillgång]] {{c}}, [[tillträde]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''admission to sexual intercourse'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[instemming]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tillgänglighet]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''an increase by addition'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[toevoeging]], [[aanwinst]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''an onset, attack or fit of disease'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[toeval]], [[aanval]]
*French: [[accès]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[acesso]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[anfall]] {{n}}, [[utbrott]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''an outburst of an emotion'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[aanval]], [[uitval]]
*French: [[accès]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[acesso]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[anfall]] {{n}}, [[utbrott]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''the right to visit one's child'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[bezoekrecht]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[umgängesrätt]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''in computing: the process of locating data in memory'''
{{top}}
*French: [[accès]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[acesso]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''communication with a computer program or the Internet'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Zugriff]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[akses]]
*{{ttbc|Interlingua}}: [[accesso]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[アクセス]] (akusesu)
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[adgang]] ''c'', ''med'' [[anfall]] ''n''
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[dostęp]] ''m''
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[acceso]] ''m''

===Verb===
{{en-verb|access|es}}

# {{transitive}} To gain or obtain access to.
# {{transitive}} {{computing}} To have access to ([[data]]).

====Translations====
'''to gain or obtain access to'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[toegang]] [[hebben]] (tot), [[bereiken]], [[verkrijgen]]
*Finnish: [[päästä]] [[käsiksi]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[acessar]]
*Swedish: [[göra åtkomlig]], [[ta fram]]
{{bottom}}

'''computing: to have access to (data)'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[toegang]] [[hebben]] (tot)
*Finnish: [[päästä]] [[käsiksi]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[acessar]]
*Swedish: [[ha åtkomst]]
{{bottom}}

===References===
*{{R:1913}}

[[am:access]]
[[ar:access]]
[[be:access]]
[[et:access]]
[[el:access]]
[[fr:access]]
[[gl:access]]
[[hy:access]]
[[io:access]]
[[it:access]]
[[hu:access]]
[[pl:access]]
[[pt:access]]
[[fi:access]]
[[sv:access]]
[[vi:access]]
[[uk:access]]
[[zh:access]]