==English==
===Etymology 1===
From French ''accent'', or from Latin ''[[accentus]]'', formed from ''[[ad-]]'' + ''[[cantus]]'' "song".

====Pronunciation====
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/ˈæksənt/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg}}
# A higher or stronger [[articulation]] of a particular [[syllable]] of a word or phrase in order to [[distinguish]] it from the others or to [[emphasize]] it.
# A [[mark]] or [[character]] used in writing, in order to indicate the place of the [[spoken]] accent, or to indicate the nature or quality of the vowel marked.
# [[modulation|Modulation]] of the voice in speaking; the manner of speaking or pronouncing; a peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice, expressing emotion; [[tone]]; as, a foreign '''accent'''; a French or a German '''accent'''.
#* Beguiled you in a plain '''accent'''. - Shakespeare, ''King Lear, II-ii''
#* The tender '''accent''' of a woman's cry. - Prior
# A [[word]]; a significant [[tone]] or [[sound]].
# (''in plural'') Expressions in general; [[speech]].
# {{prosody}} Stress laid on certain syllables of a [[verse]].
# {{music}} A regularly [[recur]]ring [[stress]] upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the [[measure]].
# {{music}} A special [[emphasis]] of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure.
# {{music}} The '''rhythmical accent''', which marks [[phrase]]s and [[section]]s of a [[period]].
# {{music}} The [[expressive]] emphasis and [[shading]] of a passage.
# {{mathematics}} A mark placed at the right hand of a [[letter]], and a little above it, to distinguish [[magnitude]]s of a similar kind expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as <b>y'</b>, <b>y<nowiki>''</nowiki></b>.
# {{trigonometry}} A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating [[minute]]s of a [[degree]], [[second]]s, etc.; as, <b>12' 27<nowiki>''</nowiki></b>, ''i. e.'', twelve minutes twenty seven seconds.
# {{engineering}} A mark used to denote [[feet]] and [[inch]]es; as, '''6' 10<nowiki>''</nowiki>''' is six feet ten inches.
# [[paint|Paint]], [[wallpaper]], or similar [[coating]] that [[contrast]]s with the surroundings.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[acute accent]]
* [[grave accent]]
* [[primary accent]]
* [[secondary accent]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[circumflex]]

=====Translations=====
'''a stronger articulation'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}, [[klemtoon]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a mark used in writing'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}, [[klemtoon]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''modulation of the voice'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}, [[tongval]] {{m}}, [[uitspraak]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a word'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''expressions'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''stress on syllables of a verse'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a recurring stress on a tone'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''an emphasis on a tone'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''the rhythmical accent'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''the expressive emphasis of a passage'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a mathematical mark'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}, [[accentteken]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a mark to denote feet or inches'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: accent {{n}}, [[accentteken]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''a coating that contrasts with the surroundings'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*Finnish: [[aksentti]], [[korostus]], [[paino]]
*French: accent
*German: [[Akzent]]  ''m''
*[[Interlingua]]: [[accento]]
*Italian: [[accento]]
*Norwegian: [[aksent]] ''c'', [[uttale]] ''c'', [[tonefall]] ''n'', ''v'' [[betone]]
*Portuguese: [[acento]]
*Romanian: accent
*Spanish: [[acento]] (2 and other), [[tilde]] (2)
*Swedish: accent

===Etymology 2===
From Old French ''[[accenter]]''.

====Pronunciation====
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/əkˈsent/}}

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|accent||}}
# {{transitive}} To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to utter or to mark with accent.
# {{transitive}} To mark emphatically; to emphasize; to accentuate.
# {{transitive}} To mark with written accents.

=====Translations=====
'''to express the accent of'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[accentueren]], [[beklemtonen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to emphasize'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[accentueren]], [[beklemtonen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''to mark with written accents'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[beklemtonen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}


[[Category:Orthography]]

[[et:Accent]]
[[fr:accent]]
[[gl:Accent]]
[[io:Accent]]
[[it:accent]]
[[nl:accent]]
[[pt:Accent]]
[[fi:accent]]
[[sv:accent]]