==English==

===Etymology===
French ''accepter'', Latin ''acceptare'', [[frequentative]] of ''accipere''; ''ad'' (to) + ''capere'' (to take).

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|accept||}}

# ''(transitive)'' To receive with a [[consenting]] mind (something offered); as, to ''accept'' a gift; -- often followed by ''of''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*If you ''accept'' them, then their worth is great. - Shakespeare, ''[[Wikisource:The Taming of the Shrew|The Taming of the Shrew]], II-ii''
#:*To ''accept'' of ransom for my son. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]], ''Samson Agonistes''
#:*She ''accepted'' of a treat. ''[[Joseph Addison]].''
# ''(transitive)'' To receive with favor; to [[approve]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The Lord ''accept'' thy burnt sacrifice. - ''Psalms 20:3''
#:*Peradventure he will ''accept'' of me. - ''Genesis. 32:20''
# ''(transitive)'' To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I ''accept'' your [[proposal]], [[amendment]], or [[excuse]].
# ''(transitive)'' To take by the mind; to [[understand]]; as, How are these words to be ''accepted''?
# ''(transitive)'' ''(Commerce)'': To receive as [[obligatory]] and promise to pay; as, to ''accept'' a bill of exchange. - [[John Bouvier]], ''Law Dictionary'', 1856
# ''(transitive)'' In a [[deliberative]] body, to receive in [[acquittance]] of a duty imposed; as, to ''accept'' the report of a [[committee]]. (This makes it the property of the body, and the question is then on its [[adoption]].)

====Synonyms====
*To [[receive]]; [[take]]; [[admit]]. 

====Translations====
*'''Finnish''': [[hyväksyä]] (2, 3)
*'''[[Ido]]''': [[aceptar]]
*'''Norwegian''': [[ta imot]], [[si ja til]], [[godta]]

===Derived terms===
:[[acceptability]] - [[acceptable]] - [[acceptableness]] - [[acceptably]] - [[acceptance]] - [[acceptancy]] - [[acceptant]] - [[acceptation]] - [[acceptedly]] - [[accepter]] - [[acceptilation]] - [[acception]] - [[acceptive]] - [[acceptor]]
*'''To accept a bill''' ''(Law)'': to agree (on the part of the [[drawee]]) to pay it when due. 
*'''To accept service''' ''(Law)'': to agree that a writ or process shall be considered as [[regularly]] served, when it has not been. 
*'''To accept the person''' ''Ecclesiastical'': to show [[favoritism]].
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*God '''accepteth''' no man's '''person'''. - ''Galatians 2:6''

===Adjective===
'''accept'''
#''(Obsolete)'' Accepted.  
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Pass our accept and peremptory answer. - Shakespeare: ''[[Wikisource:The Life of Henry the Fifth|Henry V]], V-ii''

====Translations====
*'''Catalan''': [[acceptar]]
*'''Dutch''': [[ontvangen]], [[aannemen]]
*'''Esperanto''': [[akcepti]]
*'''French''': [[accepter]]
*'''German''': [[empfangen]], [[annehmen]]
*'''Hebrew''': [[:he:לקבל|לקבל]] /lekabel'/, [[:he:להסכים|להסכים]] /le'askim/
*'''[[Ido]]''': [[aceptar]]
*'''Indonesian''': [[terima]], [[setuju]]
*'''Interlingua''': [[acceptar]]
*'''Italian''': [[accettare]]
*'''Japanese''': [[受ける]] ([[うける]], ukeru), [[受理]] ([[じゅり]], juri), [[もらう]] (morau)
*'''Portuguese''': [[aceitar]]
*'''Russian''': [[:ru:принять|принять]] /prinyat'/
*'''Spanish''': [[aceptar]]

===References===
*Webster 1913

[[es:accept]]
[[gl:Accept]]
[[gu:accept]]
[[io:Accept]]
[[it:accept]]
[[pt:Accept]]
[[fi:accept]]