==English==
===Etymology===
From Old French ''accepter''; see also [[accept]]
===Noun===
#The act of [[accepting]]; a receiving what is offered, with approbation, satisfaction, or [[acquiescence]]; esp., favorable reception; [[approval]]; as, the ''acceptance'' of a gift, office, doctrine, etc.
#:'''Quotation'''
#:*They shall come up with ''acceptance'' on mine altar. - ''Isaiah 60:7'' 
#State of being accepted; [[acceptableness]].
#:'''Quotation'''
#:*Makes it assured of ''acceptance''. - Shakespeare: ''Rape of Lucrece''
#''(Commerce):'' An assent and [[engagement]] by the person on whom a bill of exchange is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the [[acceptance]]. 
#''(Commerce):'': The bill itself when accepted.
#An [[agreeing]] to terms or [[proposals]] by which a bargain is [[concluded]] and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing [[bought]] as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered, or the taking possession as owner.
#''Law'' An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law.
#:'''Notes''' 
#:*What acts shall amount to such an ''acceptance'' is often a question of great [[nicety]] and difficulty. - Mozley and Whitely: ''Law Dictionary''
#:*In modern law, ''proposal'' and ''acceptance'' are the constituent elements into which all contracts are resolved.
#:'''Derived phrases'''
#:*'''Acceptance of a bill of exchange''', '''check''', '''draft''', or '''order''', is an engagement to pay it according to the terms. This engagement is usually made by writing the word "accepted" across the face of the bill.
#:*'''Acceptance of goods''', under the statute of frauds, is an [[intelligent]] acceptance by a party [[knowing]] the nature of the [[transaction]].
#''[Obsolete]:'' [[Acceptation]]
#:'''Derived phrase'''
#:*'''Acceptance of persons''', [[partiality]], [[favoritism]]. See under [[Accept]].

===Translations===
*[[French]]: [[acceptation]]
*[[German]]: [[Abnahme]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[acceptation]]
*[[Italian]]: [[accettazione]]
*[[Norwegian]]: [[godtagelse]] ''c'', [[aksept]] ''c''
*[[Portuguese]]: [[aceitação]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[aceptación]]
*{{sv}}: [[acceptans]] (1)

[[Category:Positive words]]

[[it:acceptance]]
[[fi:Acceptance]]