'''Accident''', ''<code>[[noun (part of speech)|noun]]</code>'' [F. ''accident'', fr. L. ''accidens'', ''-dentis'', p. pr. of ''accidere'' to happen; ''ad'' + ''cadere'' to fall. See [[Cadence]], [[Case]].]

<ol>
<li>Literally, a [[befalling]]; an event that takes place without one's [[foresight]] or expectation; an [[undesigned]], sudden, and [[unexpected]] event; chance; [[contingency]]; often, an undesigned and [[unforeseen]] [[occurrence]] of an [[afflictive]] or [[unfortunate]] character; a [[casualty]]; a [[mishap]]; as, to die by an ''accident''.

<code>Of moving ''accidents'' by flood and field. ''[[Shakespeare (source)|Shakespeare]].''</code>

<code>Thou cam'st not to thy place by ''accident'': It is the very place God meant for thee. ''[[Trench (source)|Trench]].''</code>

<li> ''([[Gram (subject)|Gram]]).'' A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as [[gender]], number, case.

<li> ''([[Her (subject)|Her]]).'' A point or mark which may be retained or [[omitted]] in a coat of arms.

<li> ''([[Log (subject)|Log]]).'' ''(a)'' A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as ''whiteness'' in paper; an attribute. ''(b)'' A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as ''sweetness'', ''softness''.

<li> Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or [[nonessential]]; as, beauty is an ''accident''.

<code>This ''accident'', as I call it, of Athens being situated some miles from the sea. ''[[J. P. Mahaffy (source)|J. P. Mahaffy]].''</code>

<li> Unusual appearance or effect. [Obs.] ''[[Chaucer (source)|Chaucer]].''

<li> A condition of affairs in which presence of mind is good, but absence of body better.

'''''Note:''''' ''Accident'', in ''Law'', is equivalent to ''casus'', or such unforeseen, extraordinary, [[extraneous]] [[interference]] as is out of the range of ordinary [[calculation]].
</ol>

===Translations===

*Dutch: [[ongeval]] ''n'', [[ongeluk]] ''n''
*French: [[accident]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[accidente]] ''m''
*Esperanto: [[akcidento]]