==English==

{{rank|talk|spirit|sometimes|452|account|party|sight|electronic}}

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ə'kaʊnt/

===Etymology 1===
From Anglo-Norman ''[[acunt]]'' "account", which comes from Old French ''[[acont]]'', which comes from ''[[aconter]]''.

====Noun====
'''account'''  (''plural:'' '''[[accounts]]''')
# A [[reckoning]]; [[computation]]; [[calculation]]; [[enumeration]]; a record of some reckoning; as, the Julian '''account''' of time.
#:*A beggarly '''account''' of empty boxes. - Shakespeare, ''Romeo and Juliet, V-i''
# A [[registry]] of [[pecuniary]] [[transaction]]s; a written or printed statement of [[business]] [[dealing]]s or [[debt]]s and [[credit]]s, and also of other things subjected to a reckoning or [[review]]; as, to keep one's '''account''' at the bank.
# A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc., explanatory of some event; as, no satisfactory '''account''' has been given of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for '''[[reason]]''', '''[[ground]]''', '''[[consideration]]''', '''[[motive]]''', etc.; as, on no '''account''', on every '''account''', on all '''accounts'''.
#:*A serious operation [autopsy] will be necessary before that can be done. But there are still four cartridges in the revolver.  Two have been fired and two wounds inflicted, so that each bullet can be '''accounted''' for. - Doctor Watson in ''The Return of Sherlock Holmes''
# A [[statement]] of facts or [[occurrence]]s; [[recital]] of transactions; a [[relation]] or [[narrative]]; a [[report]]; a [[description]]; as, an '''account''' of a battle.
#:*A laudable '''account''' of the city of London. - Howell
# A statement and explanation or [[vindication]] of one's [[conduct]] with reference to [[judgement]] thereon.
#:*Give an '''account''' of thy stewardship. - ''Luke 16:2''
# An [[estimate]] or [[estimation]]; [[valuation]]; judgement.
#:*To stand high in your '''account''' - Shakespeare, ''Merchant of Venice, III-ii''
# Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit.
#:*Men of '''account''' - Pope
#:*To turn to '''account''' - Shakespeare
# A [[subscription]] to a service.

=====Translations=====
*Finnish: [[tili]] (2), [[selonteko]] (3,4), [[selostus]] (3,4)
*Vietnamese: [[tài khoản]] (2), [[chuyện kể]] (4)

=====Derived terms=====
*'''Account current:''' a running or continued account between two or more parties, or a statement of the particulars of such an account
*'''In account with:''' in a relation requiring an account to be kept
*'''On account of:''' for the sake of; by reason of; because of
*'''On one's own account:''' for one's own interest or behalf
*'''To make account,''' ''(Obsolete):'' to have an opinion or expectation; to reckon
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*This other part . . . '''makes account''' to find no slender arguments for this assertion out of those very scriptures which are commonly urged against it. - Milton
*'''To make account of:''' to hold in estimation; to esteem; as, he '''makes''' small '''account of''' beauty
*'''To take account of''', or '''to take into account:''' to take into consideration; to notice
*'''Bank account'''
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*'''Of''' their doings, God '''takes''' no '''account'''. - Milton
*'''A writ of account,''' ''(Law):'' a writ which the plaintiff brings demanding that the defendant shall render his just account, or show good cause to the contrary; -- called also an '''action of account''' - Cowell

=====Synonyms=====
*[[Narrative]]; [[narration]]; [[relation]]; [[recital]]; [[description]]; [[explanation]]; [[rehearsal]]

=====Usage note=====
*of '''Account''', [[Narrative]], [[Narration]], [[Recital]]. These words are applied to different modes of rehearsing a series of events
*'''Account''' turns attention not so much to the speaker as to the fact related, and more properly applies to the report of some single event, or a group of incidents taken as whole; as, an '''account''' of a battle, of a shipwreck, etc.
*A '''narrative''' is a continuous story of connected incidents, such as one friend might tell to another; as, a '''narrative''' of the events of a siege, a '''narrative''' of one's life, etc.
*'''Narration''' is usually the same as '''narrative''', but is sometimes used to describe the '''mode''' of relating events; as, his powers of '''narration''' are uncommonly great.
*'''Recital''' denotes a series of events drawn out into minute particulars, usually expressing something which peculiarly interests the feelings of the speaker; as, the '''recital''' of one's wrongs, disappointments, sufferings, etc.

===Etymology 2===
From Old English ''[[acounten]]'', ''[[accompten]]'', which comes from Old French ''[[aconter]]'', ''[[à]]'' (from Latin ''[[ad]]'') + ''[[conter]]'' "to count". In modern French ''conter'' to tell, ''[[compter]]'' to count, Latin ''[[computare]]''. See [[count]].

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|account||}}
# ''(transitive) (obsolete)'' To [[reckon]]; to [[compute]]; to [[count]].
#:*The motion of... the sun whereby years are '''accounted'''. - Sir T. Browne
# ''(transitive) (rare)'' To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to [[assign]]; -- with '''to'''. - Clarendon
# ''(transitive)'' To [[value]], [[estimate]], or hold in opinion; to [[judge]] or [[consider]]; to [[deem]].
#:*'''Accounting''' that God was able to raise him up. - ''Hebrews, 11:19''
# ''(transitive) (obsolete)'' To [[recount]]; to [[relate]]. - Chaucer
# ''(intransitive)'' To render or receive an account or relation of [[particular]]s; as, an officer must '''account''' with or to the treasurer for money received.
# ''(intransitive)'' To render an account; to answer in judgement; -- with '''for'''; as, we must '''account''' for the use of our opportunities.
# ''(intransitive)'' To give a [[satisfactory]] reason; to tell the cause of; to [[explain]]; -- with '''for'''; as, idleness '''accounts''' for poverty.

=====Derived terms=====
*'''To account of:''' to esteem; to prize; to value. Now used only in the passive
*:* I '''account''' her beauty. - Shakespeare, ''Two Gentlemen of Verona, II-i''
*:*Newer was preaching more '''accounted of''' than in the sixteenth century. - Canon Robinson

=====Translations=====
*Italian: [[sąskaita]] f
*[[Rohingya]]: [[hísab]]


==Dutch==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ə'kɑʊnt/

===Noun===
'''account''' ''m, n''
# A [[loanword]] from English that means a [[subscription]] to an electronic service.

{{BE-ready}}--[[User:Richardb|Richardb]] 11:27, 18 Dec 2004 (UTC)

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]

[[de:account]]
[[el:account]]
[[fr:account]]
[[io:account]]
[[it:account]]
[[hu:account]]
[[pt:account]]
[[fi:account]]
[[vi:account]]
[[uk:account]]
[[zh:account]]