==English==

===Etymology===
Old French ''[[aacompaignier]]'', French ''[[accompagner]]'', to associate with, from Old French ''[[compaign]]'', ''[[compain]]'', companion. See [[company]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|accompan|i|ed}}

====Intransitive====
#{{obsolete}} To associate in a company; to keep company - [[Bacon]]
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Men say that they will drive away one another, . . . and not '''accompany''' together. - [[Holland]]
#{{obsolete}} To [[cohabit]] (with) - [[Milton]]
#{{music}} To perform an accompanying part or parts in a [[composition]].

=====Translations=====
*French: [[accompagner]]
*German: [[begleiten]] (3)

====Transitive====
#To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company with; to go along with; -- followed by ''with'' or ''by''; as, he '''accompanied''' his speech with a bow.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The Persian dames, . . . / In sumptuous cars, '''accompanied''' his march - [[Glover]]
#:*They are never alone that are '''accompanied''' with noble thoughts - [[Sir P. Sidney]]
#:*He was '''accompanied''' by two carts filled with wounded rebels - [[Macaulay]]
#''(Obsolete):'' To cohabit with - [[Sir T. Herbert]]
#''(Music):'' To perform an accompanying part or to
#:''The strings were accompanied by two woodwinds.''

=====Synonyms=====
*To [[attend]]; [[escort]]; go with
*We '''accompany''' those with whom we go as companions. The word imports an ''equality'' of station. 
*We '''attend''' those whom we wait upon or follow. The word conveys an idea of ''subordination''.
*We '''escort''' those whom we attend with a view to guard and protect. A gentleman '''accompanies''' a friend to some public place; he '''attends''' or '''escorts''' a lady.

=====Translations=====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vergezellen]], [[begeleiden]]
*French: [[accompagner]]
*German: [[begleiten]]
*Hungarian: [[elkisér]]
*[[Ido]]: [[akompanar]]
*Indonesian: [[teman|menemani]]
{{mid}}
*Interlingua: [[accompaniar]]
*Italian: [[accompagnare]]
*Japanese: [[付き添う]] ([[つきそう]], tsukisou)
*Portuguese: [[acompanhar]]
*Spanish: [[acompañar]]
{{bottom}}

[[fr:accompany]]
[[gl:accompany]]
[[io:accompany]]
[[it:accompany]]
[[hu:accompany]]
[[pt:accompany]]
[[fi:accompany]]