==English==
===Etymology===
Derivative of [[accord]]
===Verb===
#Present participle of [[accord]]
#:*Mind and soul '''according''' well. - [[Tennyson]]
===Adjective===
#[[Agreeing]]; in [[agreement]] or [[harmony]]; [[harmonious]].
#:*This '''according''' voice of national wisdom. - [[Burke]]
===Adverb with "to"===
'''Note:''' '''According to''' has been called a [[prepositional]] phrase, but [[strictly]] speaking, '''according''' is a participle in the sense of ''agreeing'', ''acceding'', and ''to'' alone is the preposition.
#In a manner [[conform]]ing or [[correspond]]ing to; in [[proportion]] 
#:*'''According to''' him, every person was to be bought. - [[Macaulay]]
#:*Our zeal should be '''according to''' knowledge. - [[Sprat]]
====Translations====
* [[Dutch]]: [[volgens]], [[overeenkomstig]]
* [[French]]: [[selon]]
* [[German]]: [[entsprechend]], [[zufolge]], [[laut]]
* [[Ido]]: [[segun]]
* [[Indonesian]]: [[turut|menurut]]
* [[Interlingua]]: [[secundo]]
* [[Italian]]: [[secondo]]
* [[Japanese]]: [[によると]] (ni-yoru-to)
* [[Portuguese]]: [[de acordo com]]
* [[Spanish]]: [[según]]
* [[Vietnamese]]: [[theo]]

===Adverb with "as"===
#[[precisely]] as; the same as; corresponding to the way in which. '''According as''' is an [[adverbial]] phrase, of which the [[propriety]] has been doubted; but good usage [[sanctions]] it.  
#:*Is all things well, '''According as''' I gave directions? - Shakespeare, ''2 Henry VI, III-ii''
#:*The land which the Lord will give you '''according as''' he hath promised. - ''Exodus 12:25''
====Translations====
*[[Vietnamese]]: [[tuỳ theo]]

===Adverb by itself===
#''(Obsolete):'' [[Accordingly]]; [[correspondingly]]
#:*That apprehends no further than this world, And squarest thy life according - Shakespeare, ''Measure for Measure, V-i''

[[gl:According]]
[[it:according]]