{{see|Accord}}
==English==
===Etymology===
From Old English ''acord'', ''accord'', ''acorden'', ''accorden'', through Old French ''acort'', ''acorde'', and ''acorder'' French ''accord'' and ''accorder'', and in turn from Late Latin ''accordare''; Latin ''ad'' + ''cor'', ''cordis'', heart. Cf. [[Concord]], [[Discord]], and see [[Heart]].

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɔː(r)d|-ɔː(r)d]]

===Noun===
#Agreement or [[concurrence]] of opinion, will, or action; harmony of mind; consent; assent.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A mediator of an ''accord'' and peace between them. - [[Bacon]].
#:*These all continued with one ''accord'' in prayer. - ''Acts 1:14'' 
#Harmony of sounds; agreement in pitch and tone; [[concord]]; as, the ''accord''
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Those sweet ''accords'' are even the angels' lays. - [[Sir J. Davies]].
#Agreement, harmony, or just [[correspondence]] of things; as, the ''accord'' of light and shade in painting.
#Voluntary or [[spontaneous]] motion or [[impulse]] to act; -- preceded by ''own''; as, of one's own ''accord''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*That which groweth of its own ''accord'' of thy harvest thou shalt not reap. -  ''Leviticus xxv. 5''
#:*Of his own ''accord'' he went unto you. - ''2 Corinthians 7:17''
#''(Law)'' An agreement between parties in [[controversy]], by which satisfaction for an injury is [[stipulated]], and which, when [[executed]], bars a suit. - [[Blackstone]].''
#:'''Derived phrase'''
#:*'''With one accord''', with [[unanimity]].
#::They rushed ''with one accord'' into the theater. - ''Acts 19:29''

====Translations====
'''Agreement or concurrence of opinion'''
{{top}}
* French: [[entente]]
* German: [[Übereinstimmung]]
* Hebrew: [[הסכם]]
* Ido: [[akordo]]
* Indonesian: [[sepakat|kesepakatan]], [[setuju|persetujuan]]
{{mid}}
* Interlingua: [[accordo]]
* Italian: [[accordo]]
* Japanese: [[合意]] ([[ごうい]], gōi)
* Portuguese: [[acordo]] 
* Spanish: [[acuerdo]]
{{bottom}}

'''Harmony of sounds'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Agreement, harmony, or just correspondence'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Voluntary or spontaneous motion or impulse to act'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''An agreement'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb}}

#To make to agree or [[correspond]]; to suit one thing to another; to adjust; -- followed by ''to''.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Her hands ''accorded'' the lute's music to the voice. - [[Sidney]].
#To bring to an agreement, as persons; to [[reconcile]]; to settle, adjust, [[harmonize]], or [[compose]], as things; as, to ''accord'' suits or [[controversies]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*When they were ''accorded'' from the fray. - [[Spenser]].
#:*All which particulars, being confessedly knotty and difficult can never be ''accorded'' but by a competent stock of critical learning. - [[South]].
#To grant as suitable or proper; to [[concede]]; to [[award]]; as, to ''accord'' to one due praise.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*''According'' his desire. - [[Spenser]].

====Translations====
'''to accord'''
{{top}}
* Spanish: [[acordar]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To bring to an agreement'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To grant'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
#To agree; to [[correspond]]; to be in harmony; -- followed by ''with'', formerly also by ''to''; as, his disposition ''accords'' with his looks.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*My heart ''accordeth'' with my tongue. - Shakespeare, ''2 Henry VI, III-i''
#:*Thy actions to thy words ''accord''. - Milton, ''Paradise regained''
#To agree in pitch and tone.
===Derived terms===
*[[accord with]]
*[[according]]
*[[accordingly]]
*[[accordment]]

----

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /a.kɔʁ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /a.kOR/

===Noun===
# [[chord]]
# [[agreement]]
===Derived terms===
*[[acord]]
*[[d'accord]]

[[ar:accord]]
[[de:accord]]
[[et:accord]]
[[el:accord]]
[[fr:accord]]
[[io:accord]]
[[id:accord]]
[[it:accord]]
[[hu:accord]]
[[ja:accord]]
[[pt:accord]]
[[fi:accord]]
[[vi:accord]]
[[zh:accord]]