[[Accommodate]]

===Transitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: [[Accommodated]] ; <br>
Present participle: [[Accommodating]] .]</wordforms> <ety>[L. <ets>accommodatus</ets>, p. p. of <ets>accommodare</ets>; <ets>ad + commodare</ets> to make fit, help; <ets>con-</ets> + <ets>modus</ets> measure, proportion. See [[Mode]].
<p><b>1.</b> <def>To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform; <as>as, to <ex>accommodate</ex> ourselves to circumstances</as>.</def> They <i>accomodate</i></i> their counsels to his inclination."
<i>Addison.</i></i>
#To bring into agreement or harmony; to reconcile; to compose; to adjust; to settle; <as>as, to <ex>accommodate</ex> differences, a dispute, etc.</as>
#To furnish with something desired, needed, or convenient; to favor; to oblige; <as>as, to <ex>accommodate</ex> a friend with a loan or with lodgings</as>.
#To show the correspondence of; to apply or make suit by analogy; to adapt or fit, as teachings to accidental circumstances, statements to facts, etc.; <as>as, to <ex>accommodate</ex> prophecy to events</as>.

<syn>Syn. -- To suit; adapt; conform; adjust; arrange.</syn>

[[Accommodate]]

===Intransitive verb===
#To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted.</def> <mark>[R.]</mark>
<i>Boyle.</i></i>

[[Accommodate]]

===Adjective===
===Etymology===
L. <ets>accommodatus</ets>, p.p. of <ets>accommodare</ets>.
#Suitable; fit; adapted; <as>as, means <ex>accommodate</ex> to end</as>.</def> <mark>[Archaic]</mark>
<i>Tillotson.</i></i>

[[Accommodately]]