==English==

===Etymology===
French ''[[accréditer]]''; ''à'' (Latin ''[[ad]]'') + ''[[crédit]]'' credit. See [[credit]].

===Pronunciation===
'''ac-cre*dit'''
*[[IPA]]: /əˈkrɛdɪt/
*[[SAMPA]]: //

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|accredit||}}

# ''(transitive)'' To put or bring into [[credit]]; to [[invest]] with credit or [[authority]]; to [[sanction]].
#:*His censure will ... '''accredit''' his praises. - Cowper
#:*These reasons ... which '''accredit''' and fortify mine opinion. - Shelton
# ''(transitive)'' To send with [[letter]]s [[credential]], as an [[ambassador]], [[envoy]], or [[diplomatic]] agent; to [[authorize]], as a [[messenger]] or [[delegate]].
#:*Beton ... was '''accredited''' to the Court of France. - Froude
# ''(transitive)'' To [[believe]]; to [[credit]]; to put trust in.
#:*The version of early Roman history which was '''accredited''' in the fifth century. - Sir G. C. Lewis
#:*He '''accredited''' and repeated stories of apparitions and witchcraft. - Southey
# ''(transitive)'' To credit; to [[vouch]] for or consider (some one) as doing something, or (something) as belonging to some one; as '''To accredit''' (one) '''with''' (something), to [[attribute]] something to him; as, Mr. Clay was '''accredited with''' these views; they '''accredit''' him '''with''' a wise saying.

====Derived terms====
* [[accreditation]]
* [[accredited]]

====Translations====
*French: [[accréditer]]
*German: [[sich beglaubigen]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[accreditar]]
*Italian: [[accreditare]]
*Portuguese: [[acreditar]]
*Spanish: [[acreditar]]

[[fr:accredit]]
[[io:Accredit]]
[[it:accredit]]
[[pt:Accredit]]