==English==
===Etymology===
Latin [[accretio]], from [[accrescere]] to increase. Cf. [[Crescent]], [[Increase]], [[Accrue]]

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈkɹi.ʃən/

===Noun===
#The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of organic bodies by the internal [[accession]] of parts; organic growth. - [[Arbuthnot]]
#:'''Translations'''
#:*Danish: [[tilføjelse]] ''c''
#:*[[French]]: [[accrétion]]
#:*[[German]]: [[Zunahme]]
#:* {{io}} : naturala akumulo
#:*[[Interlingua]]: [[accrescimento]], [[augmento]]
#:*[[Italian]]: [[accrescimento]]
#:*[[Spanish]]: [[aumento]], [[crecimiento]] 
#The act of increasing, or the matter added, by an accession of parts [[externally]]; an [[extraneous]] addition; as, an ''accretion'' of earth.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*A mineral ... augments not by grown, but by '''accretion'''. - [[Owen]]
#:*To strip off all the subordinate parts of his as a later '''accretion''' - [[Sir G. C. Lewis]]
#[[Concretion]]; [[coherence]] of separate particles; as, the ''accretion'' of particles so as to form a solid mass.
#A growing together of parts naturally separate, as of the fingers toes. - [[Dana]]
#''(Law):'' The [[adhering]] of property to something else, by which the owner of one thing becomes possessed of a right to another; generally, gain of land by the washing up of sand or sail from the sea or a river, or by a gradual [[recession]] of the water from the usual [[watermark]]. 
#''(Law):'' Gain to an heir or [[legatee]], failure of a [[coheir]] to the same succession, or a co-legatee of the same thing, to take his share. - [[Wharton. Kent]]

====Related Terms====
* [[accretion disk]]

[[it:accretion]]