==English==
===Etymology===
Latin ''accuratus'', past participle and adjective, from ''accurare'' to take care of; ''ad'' + ''curare'' to take care, ''cura'' care. See [[Cure]]

===Adjective===
#In exact or [[careful]] conformity to truth, or to some standard of [[requirement]], the result of care or pains; free from failure, error, or defect; exact; as, an ''accurate'' [[calculator]]; an ''accurate'' measure; ''accurate'' expression, knowledge, etc.
#''(Obsolete):'' [[Precisely]] fixed; [[executed]] with care; careful.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Those conceive the celestial bodies have more '''accurate''' influences upon these things below. - [[Bacon]]

====Synonyms====
*Correct; exact; just; nice; particular.
*Of accurate [[correct]], [[exact]], [[precise]]. 
*We speak of a thing as '''correct''' with reference to some rule or standard of comparison; as, a '''correct''' account, a '''correct''' [[likeness]], a man of '''correct''' [[deportment]]. 
*We speak of a thing as '''accurate''' with reference to the care [[bestowed]] upon its execution, and the increased [[correctness]] to be [[expected]] [[therefrom]]; as, an '''accurate''' statement, an '''accurate''' [[detail]] of particulars. 
*We speak of a thing as '''exact''' with reference to that perfected state of a thing in which there is no defect and no [[redundance]]; as, an '''exact''' [[coincidence]], the '''exact''' truth, an '''exact''' likeness. 
*We speak of a thing as '''precise''' when we think of it as [[strictly]] [[conformed]] to some rule or model, as if ''cut down'' [[thereto]]; as a '''precise''' conformity instructions; '''precisely''' right; he was very '''precise''' in giving his directions.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[accuraat]], [[precies]], [[exact]]
*Finnish: [[tarkka]], [[täsmällinen]], [[paikkansapitävä]]
*French: [[accurat]], [[précis]], [[exacte]]
*Indonesian: [[akurat]], [[teliti]], [[tepat]], [[cermat]], [[titis]]
*Interlingua: accurate, [[precise]], [[exacte]], [[juste]]
{{mid}}
*Japanese: [[正確]] ([[せいかく]], seikaku), [[精密]] ([[せいみつ]], seimitsu)
*Portuguese: [[preciso]] ''m'', [[exato]] ''m'', [[acurado]] ''m'', [[justo]] ''m''
*Telugu: [[ఖచ్చితమైన]] (khachchitamaina)
{{bottom}}

===Derived words===
*[[accuracy]]
*[[accurately]]

===See Also===
[[inaccurate]]

[[be:accurate]]
[[gl:accurate]]
[[io:accurate]]
[[it:accurate]]
[[hu:accurate]]
[[pt:accurate]]
[[sv:accurate]]