===[[Pronunciation]]===

'''ac-cuse*''
*[[IPA]]: //
*[[SAMPA]]: //
===[[Etymology]]===

''imp. & p. p'' [[Accused]] ;''p. pr. & vb. n.'' [[Accusing]].]
[OF. ''acuser'', F. ''[[accuser]]'', L. ''[[accusare]]'', to call to account, accuse; ''[[ad-]] + [[causa]]'' cause, lawsuit. Cf. [[Cause]].
===[[Verb]]===

'''accuse'''

# to find fault with or put blame on someone
===[[Transitive verb]]===

#To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense;'''(Law)''' to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; -- with ''of''; <as>as, to "accuse" one of a high crime or [[misdemeanor]]</as>.

"Neither can they prove the things whereof they now '''accuse''' me.
''Acts xxiv. 13.''"

"We are '''accused of''' having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down their arms.
''[[Macaulay]].''"
#To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure.

"Their thoughts the meanwhile '''accusing''' or else excusing one another.
''Rom. ii. 15.''"

#To betray; to show. <ety>[L.

''[[en:Sir P. Sidney|Sir P.]] [[Sidney]].''"

Syn. -- [[To charge]]; [[blame]]; [[censure]]; [[reproach]]; [[criminate]]; [[indict]]; [[impeach]]; [[arraign]].  -- To [[Accuse]], [[Charge]], [[Impeach]], [[Arraign]]. These words agree in bringing home to a person the imputation of wrongdoing. To ''accuse'' is a somewhat formal act, and is applied usually (though not exclusively) to crimes; as, to ''accuse'' of treason.  ''Charge'' is the most generic. It may refer to a crime, a dereliction of duty, a fault, etc.; more commonly it refers to moral delinquencies; as, to ''charge'' with dishonesty or falsehood. To ''arraign'' is to bring (a person) before a tribunal for trial; as, to ''arraign'' one before a court or at the bar public opinion. To ''impeach'' is officially to charge with misbehavior in office; as, to ''impeach'' a minister of high crimes. Both ''impeach'' and ''arraign'' convey the idea of peculiar dignity or impressiveness.
===[[Noun]]===

#Accusation. [Obs.]

''Shak.''
=== Translations ===
*[[Dutch]]: [[beschuldigen]]
*[[French]]: [[accuser]]
*[[German]]: [[Beschuldigen sich]]
*[[Indonesian]]: [[tuduh|menuduh]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[accusar]]
*[[Italian]], [[Latin]]: [[accusare]]
*[[Polish]]: [[oskarżać]]
*[[Portuguese]]: [[acusar]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[acusar]]