==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[as]]'', French ''[[as]]'', from Latin ''[[as]]'', ''[[assis]]'', unity, copper coin, the unit of coinage. Compare [[as]]
[[Category:Tennis]]
===Pronunciation===
*ās, /eɪs/, /eIs/

===Noun===
'''ace''' (''plural'' [[aces]])

#A unit; a single point or spot on a card or die; the card or die face so marked.
#:''the '''ace''' of diamonds''
#Hence: A very small quantity or degree; a particle; an atom; a jot.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*I'll not wag an '''ace''' further. - [[Dryden]]
#In tennis, a point made without the opponent hitting the ball.
#An expert at anything.

====Derived expressions====
*[[bate an ace]]
*[[flying ace]]
*[[within an ace of]]

<!--
*'''To bate an ace''', ''(Obsolete):'' to make the least abatement
*'''Within an ace of:''' very near; on the point of - [[W. Irving]]
*'''Flying ace'''
*an '''ace player'''
-->

====Translations====

'''unit'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''card with a single spot'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[as#French|as]] ''m''
*German: [[As#German|As]] ''n''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[asso]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[as#Spanish|as]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[ess]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''die face with a single spot'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[as#French|as]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''very small quantity or degree'''
''See [[jot]], [[iota]]''

'''point scored in tennis without the opponent hitting the ball'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[äss]] ''n''
|}
|}

'''expert'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*French: [[as#French|as]] ''m''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====

The translations below need to be checked by native speakers and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*Czech: [[eso]] ''n''
*Dutch: [[aas]] (2), ace (4)
*Finnish: [[ässä]]
*[[Frisian]]: [[aas]]
*Indonesian: [[utama]] / [[bintang]] / [[unggul]]an (1), [[as]] / [[kartu as]] (2)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[asse]] (1, 2)
*Japanese: [[エース]] (ēsu) (1)
*Portuguese: [[ás]] ''m'' (1, 2); ''[[ace]]'' ''m'' (3)
*Russian: [[туз]] (tuz)
*Swedish: [[ess]] (1, 4, 5), [[äss]] (5)

===Verb===
'''to ace''' ([[aced]], aced)

#To pass (a test, interviews etc) perfectly.

====Synonyms====
*[[pass with flying colours]]

===Adjective===
'''ace'''<!-- unsure of comparative and superlative forms [[User:Hippietrail|Hippietrail]] 05:51, 9 Mar 2004 (UTC)
Google has hits for both "most ace" and "acest" [[User:Paul G|Paul G]] 17:41, 2 August 2004 (UTC) -->

#(''slang'') Extremely good, excellent. <!--British and American as well as Australian-->

[[sv:ace]]