==English==
===Etymology===
Prob. fr. pref. a- + the  verb knowledge. See [[Knowledge]], and cf. [[Acknow]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ækˈnɑl.ɪʤ/

===Transitive Verb===
# To of or admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth; to declare one's belief in; as, to acknowledge the  being of a God.
# To own or recognize in a particular character or relationship; to admit the claims or authority of; to give  recognition to.
# To own with gratitude or as a benefit or an obligation; as, to acknowledge a favor, the receipt of a letter.
# To own as genuine; to assent to, as a legal instrument, to give it validity; to avow or admit in legal form; as, to acknowledgea deed.

====Usage==== 
Acknowledge is opposed to keep back, or conceal, and supposes that something had  been previously known to us (though perhaps not to others) which we now feel bound to lay open or make  public. Thus, a man acknowledges a secret marriage; one who has done wrong acknowledges his fault; and  author acknowledges his obligation to those who have  aided him; we acknowledge our ignorance. Recognize  supposes that we have either forgotten or not had the  evidence of a thing distinctly before our minds, but  that now we know it (as it were) anew, or receive and  admit in on the ground of the evidence it brings. Thus, we recognize a friend after a long absence. We recognize facts, principles, truths, etc., when their  evidence is brought up fresh to the mind; as, bad men  usually recognize the providence of God in seasons of danger. A foreign minister, consul, or agent, of any  kind, is recognized on the ground of his producing  satisfactory credentials.

====Quotations====
====Synonyms====
To [[avow]]; [[proclaim]]; [[recognize]]; [[own]]; [[admit]]; [[allow]]; [[concede]]; [[confess]].