==English==

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[aquiten]]'', Old French ''[[aquiter]]'', French ''[[acquitter]]''; (Latin ''[[ad]]'') + Old French ''[[quiter]]'', French ''[[quitter]]'', to quit. See [[quit]], and compare [[acquiet]]

===Alternative spellings===
*[[acquite]] ''(archaic)''

===Pronunciation===
*ə-kwĭt, /əˈkwɪt/, /<tt>@"kwIt</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪt|Rhymes: -ɪt]]

===Verb===
{{conj|acquit|acquits|acquitted|acquitted|acquitting}}
#''(followed by "of", [formerly by "from"]):'' To set free, release or discharge from an obligation, duty, liability, burden, or from an accusation or charge; - as, the jury acquitted the prisoner ''of'' the charge; to find not guilty.
#*'''1775:''' [[w:Richard Sheridan|Richard Sheridan]], ''The duenna'' - His poverty, can you '''acquit''' him of that?
#*'''1837:''' [[w:Thomas Babington Macaulay|Thomas Babington Macaulay]], "Lord Bacon" in ''The Edinburgh Review'', July 1837 - If he [Bacon] was convicted, it was because it was impossible to '''acquit''' him without offering the grossest outrage to justice and common sense.
#''(Obsolete, Rare):'' To pay for; to atone for
#* {{RQ:Shakespeare Lucrece}}, line 1071 - Till life to death '''acquit''' my forced offence.
# To discharge, as a claim or debt; to clear off; to pay off; to requite, to fulfill.
#*{{RQ:Chaucer Troilus II}}, 1200 - `'''Aquyte''' him wel, for goddes love,' quod he;
#*'''1640:''' [[w:Thomas Carew|Thomas Carew]], ''Tasso'' - Midst foes (as champion of the faith) he ment / That palme or cypress should his painees '''acquite'''.
#*'''1836:''' [[w:Edward Everett|Edward Everett]], ''Orations'' I-382 - I admit it to be not so much the duty as the privilege of an American citizen to '''acquit''' this obligation to the memory of his fathers with discretion and generosity. 
#*'''1844:''' [[w:Ralph Waldo Emerson|Ralph Waldo Emerson]], "[[s:Experience|Experience]]" in ''Essays: second series'' - We see young men who owe us a new world, so readily and lavishly they promise, but they never '''acquit''' the debt; they die young and dodge the account: or if they live, they lose themselves in the crowd.
#''(Reflexively):'' To clear one's self
#*{{RQ:Shakespeare Henry 6-2}}, III-ii - Pray God he may acquit him of suspicion!
#''(Reflexively)):''  To bear or conduct one's self; to perform one's part; as, the soldier acquitted himself well in battle; the orator acquitted himself very poorly. 
#*'''1766:''' [[w:Oliver Goldsmith|Oliver Goldsmith]], ''The vicar of Wakefield'', xiv - Though this was one of the first mercantile transactions of my life, yet I had no doubt about '''acquitting''' myself with reputation. 
#''(Obsolete):'' to release, set free, rescue
#*{{RQ:Spenser Faerie Queene}}, I-vii-52 - Till I have '''acquit''' your captive Knight
====Synonyms====
*[[absolve]] ''q.v.''
*[[clear]]
*[[exonerate]]
*[[exculpate]]
*[[release]]
*[[discharge]]

====Derived terms====
*[[acquital]], [[acquittal]]

====Translations====
*Portuguese: [[inocentar]]
*Turkish: [[aklamak]]
*German: [[freisprechen]]

===Verb form===
# ''(Archaic):'' Past participle of '''acquit''', set free, rid of
#*{{RQ:Shakespeare Wives}}, I-iii - I am glad I am so '''acquit''' of this tinder box.

===References===
*{{R:Webster 1913}}
*{{R:Century 1914}}

[[fr:acquit]]
[[io:acquit]]
[[it:acquit]]
[[zh:acquit]]