==English==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[aqueinten]]'', ''[[acointen]]'', Old French ''[[acointier]]'', Late Latin ''[[adcognitare]]'', from Latin ''[[ad]]'' + ''[[cognitus]]'', past participle of ''[[cognoscere]]'' to know; ''[[con-]]'' + ''[[noscere]] to know. See [[quaint]], [[know]]
===Transitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: '''Acquainted'''; <br>
Present participle: '''Acquainting'''
#To furnish or give experimental knowledge of; to make (one) to know; to make familiar; -- followed by with.
#:Before a man can speak on any subject, it is necessary to be [[acquainted]] with it. - [[John Locke]]
#:A man of sorrows and [[acquainted]] with grief. - ''Isaiah 53:3''
#To communicate notice to; to inform; to make cognizant; -- followed by with (formerly, also, by of), or by that, introducing the intelligence; as, to '''acquaint''' a friend with the particulars of an act.
#:'''Acquaint''' her here of my son Paris' love. - Shakespeare, ''Romeo and Juliet'', III-iv
#:I must '''acquaint''' you that I have received New dated letters from Northumberland. - Shakespeare, ''Henry IV, Part II'', IV-i
#''(Obsolete):'' To familiarize; to accustom. - [[Evelyn?]]

====Derived expressions====
*'''To be acquainted with''': to be possessed of personal knowledge of; to be cognizant of; to be more or less familiar with; to be on terms of social intercourse with. 

====Synonyms====
*to [[inform]]
*to [[apprise]]
*to [[communicate]]
*tp [[advise]]

===Adjective===
#''(Obsolete):'' Acquainted

[[it:acquaint]]