==English==
===Etymology===
F. [[actif]], L. [[activus]], fr. [[agere]], to act

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈæk.tɪv/

===Adjective===
# Having the power or quality of acting; causing change; communicating action or motion; acting; &mdash; opposed to [[passive]], that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind.
# Quick in physical movement; of an agile and vigorous body; nimble; as, an active child or animal.
# In action; actually proceeding; working; in force; &mdash; opposed to [[quiescent]], [[dormant]], or [[extinct]].
#:''active laws''
#:''active hostilities''
#:''an active volcano''
# Given to action; constantly engaged in action; energetic; diligent; busy; &mdash; opposed to [[dull]], [[sluggish]], [[indolent]], or [[inert]]; as, an active man of business; active mind; active zeal.
# Requiring or implying action or exertion; &mdash; opposed to [[sedentary]] or to [[tranquil]]; as, active employment or service; active scenes.
# Given to action rather than contemplation; practical; operative; &mdash; opposed to [[speculative]] or [[theoretical]]; as, an active rather than a speculative statesman.
# Brisk; lively; as, an active demand for corn.
# Implying or producing rapid action.
#:''an active disease''
#:''an active remedy''
# (''grammar'')
##Applied to a form of the verb; &mdash; opposed to [[passive]]. See [[active voice]].
##Applied to verbs which assert that the subject acts upon or affects something else; transitive.
##Applied to all verbs that express action as distinct from mere existence or state.
#Of a [[homosexual]] man, enjoying [[anal sex]] in which he [[penetrate|penetrates]] his partner rather than is penetrated.

====Synonyms====
*(1): [[acting]]
*(2): [[agile]], [[nimble]]
*(3): [[in action]], [[in force]], [[working]]
*(4): [[busy]], [[diligent]], [[energetic]]
*(6): [[operative]], [[practical]]
*(7): [[brisk]], [[lively]]
*(9.2): [[transitive]]

====Antonyms====
*(1): [[passive]]
*(2): [[indolent]], [[lethargic]]
*(3): [[dormant]], [[extinct]], [[quiescent]]
*(4): [[dull]], [[indolent]], [[inert]], [[sluggish]]
*(5): [[sedentary]], [[tranquil]]
*(6): [[speculative]], [[theoretical]]
*(7): [[slow]]
*(9.1): [[passive]]
*(10): [[passive]]

====See also====
*[[versatile]] (''in relation to sense 10'')

[[it:active]]
[[he:Active]]
[[pl:Active]]