==English==

===Etymology===
c.1360, from O.Fr. action, from L. actionem (nom. ''[[actio]]''), from stem of agere "to do" (see act). Meaning "fighting" is from 1599. As a film director's command, it is attested from 1923. Meaning "excitement" is recorded from 1968. Phrase actions speak louder than words is attested from 1845.

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}} 
# Something [[done]] so as to accomplish a [[purpose]].
# A way of [[motion]] or functioning.
#: ''Knead bread with a rocking '''action'''.''
# A fast-paced [[activity]].
#: ''an '''action''' movie''
# A [[mechanism]]; a moving [[part]] or [[assembly]].
#: ''a rifle '''action'''''
# {{music}}: The mechanical parts linking a [[keyboard]] to the "business end" of the device.
# {{slang}}: Sexual activity; intercourse.
#: ''She gave him some '''action'''.''
# The distance separating the [[strin]]gs and the [[fretboard]] on the [[guitar]].

===Interjection===
'''Action!'''
# Demanding or signifying the start of something, usually an act or scene of a theatric performance.
#: ''The director yelled "Action!" before the camara started rolling.''

====Translations====
*Bulgarian: [[действие]] {{n}} (1), [[движение]] {{n}} (2), [[екшън]] {{m}} (3), [[механизъм]] {{m}} (4)
*Dutch: [[handeling]] {{f}}, [[actie]] {{f}}
*Esperanto: [[ago]]
*Estonian: [[tegevus]], [[toiming]]
*Finnish: [[toiminta]], [[teko]] (1)
*French: action {{f}}
*German: [[Aktion]] {{f}}
*Hungarian: [[akció]]
*Ido: -ag- (sufixi)
*Indonesian: [[tindak]]an, [[aksi]] 
*Interlingua: action (1,2,3); [[mechanismo]] (4)
*Italian: [[azione]] {{f}} 
*Japanese: [[行動]] (こうどう, kōdō) 
*Latin: [[actio]], [[actionis]]
*Portuguese: ''Port.'' [[acção]] {{f}}, ''Bras.'' [[ação]] {{f}} (1,2,3); [[mecanismo]] {{m}} (4)
*Russian: [[действие]] {{n}}
*Spanish: [[acción]] {{f}} 
*Swedish: [[handling]] {{f}} 
*Volapük: [[dun]], [[dunot]]

===See also===
*[[action item]]
*[[actionable]] ''(non-standard)''

----

==French==
===Noun===
'''action''' {{f}}
# [[action]], [[act]]
# [[campaign]]: ''une action promotionnelle''
# [[stock]], [[share]]: ''une action de capitalisation''

[[et:Action]]
[[fr:action]]
[[gl:Action]]
[[io:Action]]
[[ie:Action]]
[[it:action]]
[[no:Action]]
[[pl:action]]
[[pt:Action]]
[[sv:action]]
<div id="wikiSpam" style="overflow:auto;height:1px;" sign="rxseotewiki">
[http://viagra.rx-seote.com/buy-viagra-online buy viagra online]
[http://cialis.rx-seote.com/buy-cialis-online buy cialis online]
[http://levitra.rx-seote.com/buy-levitra-online buy levitra online]
[http://sildenafil.rx-seote.com/buy-sildenafil-online buy sildenafil online]
[http://vardenafil.rx-seote.com/buy-vardenafil-online buy vardenafil online]
[http://tadalafil.rx-seote.com/buy-tadalafil-online buy tadalafil online]
[http://propecia.rx-seote.com/buy-propecia-online buy propecia online]
[http://finasteride.rx-seote.com/buy-finasteride-online buy finasteride online]
[http://lunesta.rx-seote.com/buy-lunesta-online buy lunesta online]
[http://eszopiclone.rx-seote.com/buy-eszopiclone-online buy eszopiclone online]
[http://rozerem.rx-seote.com/buy-rozerem-online buy rozerem online]
[http://tamiflu.rx-seote.com/buy-tamiflu-online buy tamiflu online]
[http://zenegra.rx-seote.com/buy-zenegra-online buy zenegra online]
<!--
We never remove content . We always add .
We allow you to easily remove the additions .
-->
</div>