==English==

===Etymology===
Latin [[addere]]; [[ad]] + [[dare]] to give, put. Compare [[date]], [[do]].

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|add||}}

# To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow (on).
#:Quotations
#:*The Lord shall '''add''' to me another son. - ''Genesis, 30:24''
# To join or unite, as one thing to another, or as several particulars, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity, enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To sum up; to put together mentally; as, to add numbers; to add up a column.
#:Quotations
#:*Back to thy punishment, False fugitive, and to thy speed '''add''' wings. - [[w:John Milton|John Milton]]
#:*As easily as he can '''add''' together the ideas of two days or two years. - [[John Locke]]
# To append, as a statement; to say further.
#:Quotations
#:*He '''added''' that he would willingly consent to the entire abolition of the tax. - [[William Macaulay]]

====Translations====
'''to append, as a statement'''
*Finnish: [[lisätä]]
*[[Novial]]: [[adi]]

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|add||}}

# To make an addition.  To add to, to augment; to increase; as, it adds to our anxiety. 
#:Quotations
#:*I will '''add''' to your yoke. - ''1 Kings 12:14''
# {{math}} To perform the arithmetical operation of addition; as, he adds rapidly.

====Translations====
'''to make an addition'''
*Catalan: [[afegir]]
*Dutch: [[toevoegen]]
*Finnish: [[lisätä]]
*French: [[additionner]], [[ajouter]], [[sommer]]
*German: [[hinzufügen]]
*[[Novial]]: [[adi]]
*Spanish: [[añadir]]
*Swedish: [[addera]]

'''to perform the arithmetical operation of addition'''
*Catalan: [[sumar]]
*Dutch: [[optellen]], [[bijtellen]]
*Finnish: [[laskea yhteen]]
*French: [[additionner]], [[faire une addition]] 
*German: [[addieren]]
*Japanese: [[足す]] ([[たす]])
*Spanish: [[adicionar]], [[sumar]]
*Swedish: [[addera]], [[summera]], [[lägga ihop]]

{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Hebrew}}: [[:he:לחבר|לחבר]] /lehaber/
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[adjuntar]] (join), [[adicionar]] (numbers)
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[tambah]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[加える]] ([[くわえる]]), [[増す]] ([[ます]]), [[追加]]する (ついかする, tsuika-suru)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[더하다]] (deo-hada), [[Hanja]]: [[추가하다]] (chuga-hada)
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[doda&#263;]]
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[:ru:прибавить|прибавить]] /pribavit'/, [[:ru:добавить|добавить]] /dobavit'/,

===Anagrams===
*[[dad]]

===Synonyms===
*[[annex]]
*[[coalesce]]
*[[join]]
*[[unite]]

===Usage notes===
*We '''add''' by bringing things together so as to form a whole. 
*We '''join''' by putting one thing to another in close or continuos connection. 
*We '''annex''' by attaching some adjunct to a larger body. 
*We '''unite''' by bringing things together so that their parts adhere or intermingle. 
*Things '''coalesce''' by coming together or mingling so as to form one organization. 
*To '''add''' quantities; to '''join''' houses; to '''annex''' territory; to '''unite''' kingdoms; to make parties '''coalesce'''

===Derived terms===
*[[adder#Noun 2|adder]]
*[[addition]]
*[[additive]]
*[[add-on]]

===See also===
*[[ADD]]

{{webster}}

[[fr:add]]
[[gl:add]]
[[io:add]]
[[it:add]]
[[ja:add]]
[[pt:add]]
[[ru:add]]
[[fi:add]]
[[sv:add]]
[[ta:add]]
[[uk:add]]
[[zh:add]]