{{webster}}
==English==
===Etymology===
{{L.}} ''[[addictus]]'', past participle of ''[[addicere]]'', to adjudge, to devote, from ''[[ad]]'' + ''[[dicere]]'', to say; compare '''[[diction]]'''

===Noun===
'''addict''' (''plural'' '''addicts''')

====Pronunciation====
*ă'dĭkt, /ˈædɪkt/, /<tt>"{dIkt</tt>/

#One who is addicted.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[addikti]]
*French: [[intoxiqué]], [[accro]] (''slang'')

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|addict||}}

====Pronunciation====
*ədĭkt', /əˈdɪkt/, /<tt>@"dIkt</tt>/

#To apply [[habitually]]; to [[devote]]; to [[habituate]] 
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*They '''addict''' themselves to the civil law. ''[[Evelyn]]''.
#:*He is '''addicted''' to his study. [[Beaumont]] & [[Fletcher]]
#:*That part of mankind that '''addict''' their minds to speculations. ''[[Adventurer]]''.
#:*His genius '''addicted''' him to the study of antiquity. ''[[Fuller]]''.
#:*A man gross ... and '''addicted''' to low company. ''[[Macaulay]]''.
#(''obsolete'') To [[adapt]]; to make [[suitable]]; to [[fit]].
#:*The land about is exceedingly addicted to wood, but the coldness of the place hinders the growth. ''[[Evelyn]]''.

===Synonyms===
*(''devote''): [[consecrate]], [[dedicate]], [[devote]]
*(''adapt''): [[adapt]], [[fit]]

"Addict was formerly used in a good sense; as, addicted to letters; but is now mostly employed in a bad sense or an indifferent one; as, addicted to vice; addicted to sensual indulgence. Addicted to staying at home." J. S. Mill. 

Devote is always taken in a good sense, expressing habitual earnestness in the pursuit of some favorite object; as, devoted to science. Consecrate and dedicate express devotion of a higher kind, involving religious sentiment; as, consecrated to the service of the church; dedicated to God.

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[it:addict]]
[[pt:Addict]]