==English==

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[adressen]]'', to raise erect, adorn, Old French ''[[adrecier]]'', to straighten, address, French ''[[adresser]]'', from ''à'' (Latin ''[[ad#Latin|ad]]'') + Old French ''[[drecier]]'', French ''[[dresser]]'', to straighten, arrange; see [[dress]]

===Pronunciation===
*Noun:
**Canada: {{AHD|ă'drəs}}, {{IPA|/ˈæ.dɹəs/}}, {{SAMPA|/"{dr@s/}}<!--would a Canadian please check this-->
**[[RP]]: {{AHD|ədrĕs}}', {{IPA|/ə.ˈdrɛs/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"drEs/}}
**US: {{AHD|ă'drĕs}}, {{IPA|/ˈæ.dɹɛs/}}, {{SAMPA|/"@drEs/}}
*Verb:
**UK, US: {{AHD|ədrĕs'}}, {{IPA|/ə.ˈdɹɛs/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"drEs/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

# Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and place of residence of the person addressed.
# Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.
# A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of thanks, an address to the voters.
# Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or insinuating address.
# Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady. Addison.
# Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.
# {{obsolete}} Act of preparing one's self. ''[[Jer Taylor]]''.

====Synonyms====
*[[speech]]
*[[discourse]]
*[[harangue]]
*[[oration]]
*[[petition]]
*[[lecture]]
*[[readiness]]
*[[ingenuity]]
*[[tact]]
*[[adroitness]]

====Translations====
'''direction for letters:'''
{{top}}
*[[Basque]]: [[helbide]]
*[[Cantonese]]: [[地址]] (de̿i.jí)
*Chinese: [[地址]] (dì.zhǐ)
*Czech: [[adresa]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[adres]] {{n}}
*[[Esperanto]]: [[adreso]]
*Finnish: [[osoite]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[adresse]] {{f}}
*German: [[Adresse]] {{f}}
*Italian: [[indirizzo]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[dirección]] {{f}}
*[[Catalan]]: [[adreça]] {{f}}
*Telugu: [[చిరునామా]] (chirunaamaa)
*Thai: [[คาํปราศรยั]]
{{bottom}}

'''verbal application:'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Adresse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[discorso]] {{m}}
*Telugu: [[సంభోధన]] (sambhOdhana)
{{bottom}}

'''formal communication:'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[puhe]]
*German: [[Adresse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Telugu: [[ప్రసంగం]] (prasamgam)
{{bottom}}

'''manner:'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[esitystapa]]
*German: [[Adresse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[maniera]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

'''attention:'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Adresse]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''skill:'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[taitavuus]], [[taito]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[Adresse]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-sibilant|addre|ss|}}

# {{intransitive}} {{obsolete}} To prepare one's self.
#: ''Let us '''address''' to tend on Hector's heels.'' - Shakespeare
# {{intransitive}} {{obsolete}} To direct speech.
#: ''Young Turnus to the beauteous maid '''address'''.'' - Dryden
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To aim; to direct.
#: ''And this good knight his way with me '''addrest'''.'' - Spenser
# {{transitive}} {{obsolete}} To prepare or make ready.
#: ''His foe was soon '''addressed'''.'' - Spenser
#: ''Turnus '''addressed''' his men to single fight.'' - Dryden]]
#: ''The five foolish virgins '''addressed''' themselves at the noise of the bridegroom's coming.'' - Jeremy Taylor
# {{transitive}} {{reflexive}} To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or energies (to some object); to betake.
#: ''These men '''addressed''' themselves to the task.'' - Macaulay
# {{transitive}} {{archaic}} To clothe or array; to dress.
#: ''Tecla ... '''addressed''' herself in man's apparel.'' - Jewel
# {{transitive}} To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).
#: ''The young hero had '''addressed''' his players to him for his assistance.'' - Dryden
# {{transitive}} To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to speak to; to accost.
#: ''Are not your orders to '''address''' the senate?'' - Addison
#: ''The representatives of the nation '''addressed''' the king.'' - Swift
# {{transitive}} To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.
# {{transitive}} To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.
# {{transitive}} To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore.
# {{transitive}} To address one's self to; to prepare one's self for; to apply one's self to; to direct one's speech or discourse to.
# {{transitive}} {{formal}} To handle, discuss about a problem especially to solve it.
#: ''This article will '''address''' how to write a good entry for Wiktionary.''

====Translations====
;To prepare one's self (1)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To direct speech (2)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To aim (3)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To prepare (4)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Reflexively: To prepare one's self (5)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To clothe or array (6)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To direct, as words (7)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[pitää]] [[puhe]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To direct speech to (8)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[puhutella]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To direct in writing (9)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[osoittaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To make suit to as a lover (10)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kosiskella]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To consign or intrust to the care of another (11)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[antaa]] [[joku|jonkun]] [[huosta|huostaan]], [[jättää]] [[joku|jonkun]] [[haltu|haltuun]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Usage notes====
The intransitive uses come from the dropping out of the reflexive pronoun.

{{webster}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[ar:address]]
[[de:address]]
[[fr:address]]
[[io:address]]
[[it:address]]
[[hu:address]]
[[pl:address]]
[[pt:address]]
[[ru:address]]
[[fi:address]]
[[ta:address]]
[[zh:address]]