==English==

===Etymology===
From Old French [[avancer]] (French [[avancer]]), from late Latin [[abante]], from [[ab]] + [[ante]] ‘before’.  The spelling with ''d'' was a mistake, ''a-'' being supposed to be from Latin [[ad]].  [[avaunt|Avaunt]] is an earlier form of the same source-word.

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] [ædˈvænts] or [ɛd-], US [əd.væn(t)s], UK [əd.vɑn(t)s]

===Transitive Verb===
'''advance'''
# To bring forward; to move towards the van or front; to make to go on.
#:    They . . . advanced their eyelids. —Shakespeare
# To raise to a higher rank; to promote.
# To accelerate the growth or progress; to further; to forward; to help on; to aid; to heighten; as, to advance the ripening of fruit; to advance one's interests.
# To bring to view or notice; to offer or propose; to show; as, to advance an argument.
# To make earlier, as an event or date; to hasten.
# To furnish, as money or other value, before it becomes due, or in aid of an enterprise; to supply beforehand; as, a merchant advances money on a contract or on goods consigned to him.
# To raise to a higher point; to enhance; to raise in rate; as, to advance the price of goods.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[edistää]]
*Slovak: [[pokročilý]]
*Polish: [[zwiększać]]

====Synonyms==== 
To [[raise]]; [[elevate]]; [[exalt]]; [[aggrandize]]; [[improve]]; [[heighten]]; [[accelerate]]; [[allege]]; [[adduce]]; [[assign]].

===Intransitive Verb===
'''advance'''
# to move forwards, to [[approach]]

====Translations====
*Old English: [[wadan]]

[[ar:advance]]
[[fr:advance]]
[[gl:advance]]
[[io:advance]]
[[it:advance]]
[[hu:advance]]
[[ja:advance]]
[[pt:advance]]
[[zh:advance]]