==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} [[avantage]], [[avauntage]], {{F.}} [[avantage]], from [[avant]] before.  See [[advance]], and  confer [[vantage]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ædˈvæn.tɪʤ/

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# Any condition, circumstance, opportunity, or means, particularly favorable to [[success]], or to any desired end; benefit; as, the enemy had the advantage of a more  elevated position.
# Superiority; mastery; &mdash; with of or over.
# Superiority of state, or that which gives it; [[benefit]]; gain; profit; as, the advantage of a good constitution.
# {{tennis}} The score where one player wins a point after [[deuce]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[有利]]，[[优势]]/[[優勢]]
*Danish: [[fordel]]
*Finnish: [[etu]] (1), [[yliote]] (2)
*German: [[Vorteil]] {{m}} (1,4)
* [[Ido]]: [[avantajo]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[vantaggio]]
*Japanese: [[優位]]、[[有利]]
*Portuguese: [[vantagem]] {{f}} (1), [[benefício]] {{m}} (3)
*Telugu: [[ప్రయోజనం]] (prayOjanam)
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* '''Advantage ground''', vantage ground. [R.] --Clarendon.
* '''To have the advantage of''' (any one), to have a personal knowledge of one who does not have a reciprocal knowledge. ''You have the advantage of me; I don't remember ever to have had the honor.'' &mdash;Sheridan.
* '''To take advantage of''', to profit by; (often used in a bad sense) to overreach, to outwit.

====Synonyms====
*[[advantageous]], [[benefit]], [[beneficial]].

====Antonyms====
*[[disadvantage]]

[[Category:Positive words]]

[[ar:advantage]]
[[fr:advantage]]
[[gl:advantage]]
[[io:advantage]]
[[it:advantage]]
[[hu:advantage]]
[[pt:advantage]]
[[ru:advantage]]
[[fi:advantage]]