==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[ædˈv̥ɛntʃɚ] (CA)}}
*{{Audio|en-ca-adventure.ogg|Audio (CA)}}

===Etymology 1===
{{OE.}} ''[[aventuren]], [[auntren]],'' {{F.}} ''[[aventurer]],'' from [[aventure]].  See noun form.

====Transitive Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|adventur|e}}
# To risk, or hazard; jeopard; to venture.
# To venture upon; to run the risk of; to dare.

====Intransitive Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|adventur|e}}
# To try the chance; to take the risk.

====Translations====
Swedish: [[äventyra]]

===Etymology 2===
{{OE.}} ''[[aventure]], [[aunter]], [[anter]],'' {{F.}} ''[[aventure]],'' from {{LL.}} ''[[adventura]],'' from {{L.}} ''[[advenire]], [[adventum]],'' to arrive, which in the Romance languages took the  sense of &ldquo;to happen, befall&rdquo; See [[Advene]].

====Noun====
'''adventure'''  (''plural:'' '''[[adventures]]''')
# That which happens without design; chance; hazard; hap; hence, chance of danger or loss.
# The encountering of risks; hazardous and striking enterprise; a bold undertaking, in which hazards are to be encountered, and the issue is staked upon unforeseen events; a daring feat.
# A remarkable occurrence; a striking event; a stirring incident; as, the adventures of one's life.
# A mercantile or speculative enterprise of hazard; a venture; a shipment by a merchant on his own account.
====Antonyms====
*(''remarkable occurence''): [[boredom]]
====Translations====
*French: [[aventure]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[äventyr]], [[äventyrlighet]]
*German: [[Abenteuer]]

[[gl:Adventure]]
[[io:Adventure]]
[[fi:adventure]]