==English==
{{webster}} 
{{rfc}}
===Etymology===
From [[w:Old English language|Old English]][[category:Old English derivations]] avis, [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] [[avis]]; plus [[w:Old French|Old French]][[Category:Old French derivations]] [[vis]], from [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] [[visum]]  (meaning ''[[seemed]], [[seen]]); really past participle of [[videre]] (''to see''), so that ''vis'' meant ''that which has seemed best''. See [[vision]], and compare with [[avise]], [[advise]]. 


===Noun===
'''advice'''
#An [[opinion]] [[recommend]]ed or [[offer]]ed, as [[worthy]] to be [[follow]]ed; [[counsel]]. 
#:''We may give '''advice''', but we can not give conduct.'' &mdash; Franklin
#(obsolete) Deliberate [[consideration]]; [[knowledge]]. 
#:''How shall I dote on her with more advice, That thus without advice begin to love her?'' [[w:Shakespeare|Shakespeare]][[Category:Shakespeare Quotes]]
#Information or notice given; intelligence; as, late advices from France; -- commonly in the plural. In commercial language, advice usually means information communicated by letter; -- used chiefly in reference to drafts or bills of exchange; as, a letter of advice. McElrath. 
#(Criminal Law) Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. 

'''advice boat
#a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; a dispatch boat. 

'''to take advice'''
#To accept advice.
#To consult with another or others. 

===Synonyms===
[[counsel]]; [[suggestion]]; [[recommendation]]; [[admonition]]; [[exhortation]]; [[information]]; [[notice]]. 
<!--
====Parody====
#A [[commodity]] peddled [[by]] your [[lawyer]] [[and]] given [[away]] by your [[mother-in-law]], [[but]] [[impossible]] [[to]] [[dispose]] [[of]] [[yourself]].  [[Famous]] [[as]] [[the]] [[one]] [[thing]] [[which]] it is ''More blessed to give than receive.''
#:'''Good advice''': Something old men give young men when they can no longer give them a bad example. - 1904, ''[[The Foolish Dictionary]]''
#Notification
-->

===Translations===
Require checking

*Basque: [[aholku]] (?), [[jakinarazpen]] (?)
*Dutch: [[raad]] ''m''
*Finnish: [[neuvo]]
*French: [[conseil]] ''m''
*German: [[Rat]] ''''
*Spanish: [[consejo]] ''m''

[[it:advice]]

<!-- from Webster:

Ad*vice" (#), n. [OE. avis, F. avis; + OF. vis, fr. L. visum seemed, seen; really p. p. of videre to see, so that vis meant that which has seemed best. See Vision, and cf. Avise, Advise.] 
1. An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed; counsel. 

We may give advice, but we can not give conduct. Franklin.
2. Deliberate consideration; knowledge. [Obs.] 

How shall I dote on her with more advice, That thus without advice begin to love her? Shak.
3. Information or notice given; intelligence; as, late advices from France; -- commonly in the plural. &hand; In commercial language, advice usually means information communicated by letter; -- used chiefly in reference to drafts or bills of exchange; as, a letter of advice. McElrath. 

4. (Crim. Law) Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. Advice boat, a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; a dispatch boat. -- To take advice. (a) To accept advice. (b) To consult with another or others. Syn. -- Counsel; suggestion; recommendation; admonition; exhortation; information; notice. 

-->