==English==
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /eɪʤ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /eIdZ/

===Noun===
'''age''' (''plural'' '''ages''')

#The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other kind; lifetime.
#That part of the duration of a being or a thing which is between its beginning and any given time.
#:''What is the present age of a man, or of the earth?''
#The latter part of life; an advanced period of life; seniority; state of being old.
#One of the stages of life; as, the age of infancy, of youth, etc.
#Mature age; especially, the time of life at which one attains full personal rights and capacities.
#:''to come of age''
#:''he (or she) is of age''
#The time of life at which some particular power or capacity is understood to become vested.
#:''the age of consent''
#:''the age of discretion''
#A particular period of time in history, as distinguished from others.
#:''the golden age''
#:''the age of Pericles''
#A great period in the history of the Earth.
#A century; the period of one hundred years.
#The people who live at a particular period.
#Hence, a generation.
#A long time.

====Synonyms====
*(''latter part of life''): [[dotage]], [[old age]]

====Translations====

'''whole duration of a being'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[elinikä]], [[ikä]]
*Turkish: [[ömür]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[livslängd]] ''c''
|}
|}

'''part of the duration of a being or thing between its beginning and any given time'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Asturian: [[edá]] ''m''
*Danish: [[alder]]
*Esperanto: [[poko]]
*Finnish: [[ikä]]
*French: [[âge]] ''m''
*German: [[Alter#German|Alter]] ''f''
*Greek: [[ετών]] (eton) ([[:el:ετών|el]])
*[[Interlingua]]: [[etate]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[età]] ''m''
*Latin: [[aetas]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[idade]], rarely [[edade]] ''f''
*Russian: [[век]] (vek)
*Slovak: [[vek#Slovak|vek]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[edad]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[ålder]] ''c''
*Turkish: [[yaş]]
|}
|}

'''latter part of life'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[vanhuus]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Swedish: [[ålderdom]] ''c''
*Turkish: [[yaşlılık]]
|}
|}

'''one of the stages of life'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[ikä]], [[jakso]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[vek#Slovak|vek]] ''m''
*Swedish: [[ålder]] ''c''
*Turkish: [[çağ]]
|}
|}

'''time of life when one attains full person rights'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[täysi-ikäisyys]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[dospelý vek]] ''m''
*Turkish: [[yetişkin]]
|}
|}

'''time of life at which some particular power or capacity is understood to become vested'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: -[[ikä]] ''latter part of a compound''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[zrelý vek]] ]]''m''
*Turkish: [[olgunluk]]
|}
|}

'''particular period of time in history'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Asturian: [[edá]] ''m''
*Chinese: [[时代]] ()
*Dutch: [[tijd]]
*Finnish: [[aika]], [[kausi]]
*French: [[âge]]
*German: [[zeit]]
*Greek: [[εποχή]] (epochi, epohi, epokhi) ''m'' ([[:el:Εποχή|el]])
*Indonesian: [[zaman]]
*Interlingua: [[epocha]]
*Italian: [[età]]
*Japanese: [[時代]] (,)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Korean: [[시대]] [時代] (sidae)
*Latin: [[aetas]] ''m''
*Low Saxon: [[tied]]
*Polish: [[epoka]]
*Portuguese: [[edade]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[etate]] ''f''
*Russian: [[век]] (vek)
*Slovak: [[vek#Slovak|vek]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[edad]]
*Swedish: [[tid]] ''c'', [[ålder]] ''c'' 
*Turkish: [[çağ]]
*Welsh: [[yr]]
|}
|}

'''great period in the history of the Earth'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[geologinen kausi]], [[kausi]]
*French: [[époque]] ''f'' (2), [[ère]] ''f''
*German: [[Ära]] ''f'', [[Epoche]] ''f'' (2)
*[[Interlingua]]: [[epocha]], [[era]] (2);
*Italian: [[epoca]] ''f'', [[era]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[época]] ''f'', [[era]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[epocă]] ''f'', [[eră]] ''f''
*Slovak: [[vek#Slovak|vek]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[época]] ''f'', [[era]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[era#Swedish|era]] ''c'', [[ålder]] ''c''
*Turkish: [[çağ]]
|}
|}

'''century'''
''See [[century]]''

'''people who live at a particular period'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''generation'''
''See [[generation]]''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[generatie]] ''f''
*French: [[génération]] ''f''
*Interlingua: [[generation]]
*Italian: [[generazione]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Portuguese: [[geração]] ''f''
*Romanian: [[generaţie]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[generación]] ''f''
*Turkish: [[nesil]]
|}
|}

'''a long time'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[vek#Slovak|vek]] ''m''
|}
|}

=====Translations to be checked=====
The translations below need to be checked by native speakers or some who have a knowledge of other languages and inserted into the appropriate table(s) above.  The numbering is unreliable.

*[[Breton]]: [[oad]] ''m'' -où (1), [[oadvezh]] ''m'' -ioù, [[hoalad]] ''m'' -où (2)
*Dutch: [[leeftijd]] ''m'' (1), [[ouderdom]] ''m'' (1), [[tijdperk]] ''n'' (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[aĝo]]
*Hebrew: [[גיל]] ''m''
*Indonesian: [[umur]] / [[usia]] (1)
*Japanese: [[年齢]] ([[ねんれい]], nenrei) (1)
*Korean: [[나이]] (nai) (1), [[세대]] [世代] (sedae) (3)
*Romanian: [[vârstă]] ''f'' (2)
*Turkish: [[yaş]]

===Transitive verb===
'''to age''' ('''ageing''', '''aged''')

#To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to.
#:''grief ages us''

===Intransitive verb===
'''to age''' ('''aging''', '''aged''' - ''ageing'' (''mainly British''))

#To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age.
#:''he grew fat as he aged''

====Translations====
'''become old'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Finnish: [[vanhentua]], [[vanheta]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Slovak: [[starnúť]], [[zostarnúť]]
*Turkish: [[yaşlanmak]]
|}
|}

===Derived terms===
*[[act one's age]]
*[[age bracket]]
*[[aged]]<!--as in "old" and "being a certain age"-->
*[[ageism]]
*[[age group]]
*[[ageist]]
*[[ageless]]
*[[age limit]]
*[[agelong]]
*[[age of consent]]
*[[age-old]]
*[[ages]]<!--a long time-->
*[[ageing]], [[aging]]<!--adjective, noun-->
*[[Bronze Age]]
*[[golden age]]
*[[ice age]]
*[[Industrial Age]]
*[[Iron Age]]
*[[Middle Ages]]
*[[of age]]
*[[silver age]]
*[[Stone Age]]
*[[under age]]

[[gl:Age]]
[[it:age]]
[[pl:Age]]
[[fi:Age]]