==English==

===Pronunciation 1===
*[[AHD]]: ă'grĭgət
*{{IPA|/ˈæɡrɪɡət/}}
*[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>"{grIg@t</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-aggregate-noun.ogg|Audio (US)}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}

# A mass, assemblage, or sum of particulars; something [[consist]]ing of [[element]]s but considered as a whole.
# A mass formed by the union of homogeneous particles; – in distinction from a compound, formed by the union of heterogeneous particles.
# The full [[chromatic]] or the [[set]] of all twelve [[pitch class]]es, usually presented by two or more [[voice]]s near-[[simultaneity|simultaneously]] in [[hexachord]]s. (DeLone et. al. (Eds.), 1975, chap. 6)
# Solid particles of low [[aspect ratio]] added to a [[composite]] [[material]], as distinguished from the [[matrix]] and any [[fiber]]s or reinforcements, especially the [[gravel]] and [[sand]] added to [[concrete]]. (technical)

=====See also=====
*[[twelve tone technique]] 
*[[serialism]] 

=====References=====
*{{R:1913}}
*DeLone et. al. (Eds.) (1975). Aspects of Twentieth-Century Music. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0130493465, Ch. 6.

=====Translations=====
'''a mass, assemblage, or sum of particulars (1)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[agregado]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''a mass formed by the union of homogeneous particles (2)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[agregado]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''the full chromatic or the set of all twelve pitch classes (3)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''solid particles of low aspect ratio added to a composite material (4)'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Adjective====
{{en-adj-notcomp}}

# Formed by a collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum; collective; combined; [[add]]ed up
# consisting or formed of smaller objects or parts.
# Formed into clusters or groups of lobules; as, aggregate glands.
# Composed of several florets within a common involucre, as in the daisy; or of several carpels formed from one flower, as in the raspberry.
# Having the several component parts adherent to each other only to such a degree as to be separable by mechanical means.
# United into a common organized mass; said of certain compound animals.

===Pronunciation 2===
*AHD: ă'grĭgāt
*{{IPA|/ˈæɡrɪɡeɪt/}}
*SAMPA: /<tt>"{grIgeIt</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-aggregate-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}

====Verb====
{{en-verb|aggregat|ing}}

# ''(transitive)'' To bring together; to collect into a mass or sum. ''The aggregated soil''.
# ''(transitive)'' To add or unite, as, a person, to an association.
# ''(transitive)'' To amount in the aggregate to; as, ''ten loads, aggregating five hundred bushels''.

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[ar:aggregate]]
[[et:aggregate]]
[[fr:aggregate]]
[[io:aggregate]]
[[pt:aggregate]]
[[vi:aggregate]]
[[zh:aggregate]]