==English==

===Etymology===
From [[Ancient Greek]] '''[[αγωνία]]''' (''agonia'') "emulation, competition, struggle", from '''[[αγών]]''' (''agon'') "contest".

===Pronunciation===
*''US:'' {{IPA|/ˈægəniː/}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun|agon|ies}}

# Violent contest or striving.
#: The world is convulsed by the agonies of great nations. --Macaulay.
# Pain so extreme as to cause writhing or contortions of the body, similar to those made in the athletic contests in Greece; and hence, extreme pain of mind or body; anguish; paroxysm of grief; specifically, the sufferings of Christ in the garden of Gethsemane.
#: Being in an agony he prayed more earnestly. --Luke xxii. 44.
# Paroxysm of joy; keen emotion.
#: With cries and agonies of wild delight. --Pope.
# The last struggle of life; death struggle.

====Synonyms====
[[anguish]]; [[torment]]; [[throe]]; [[distress]]; [[pang]]; [[suffering]].

====Translations====
;violent contest or striving
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[agonia]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;extreme pain of mind or body
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[agonia]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;paroxysm of joy
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;he last struggle of life
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[agonia]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translationsto be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[苦恼]]，[[痛苦]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[agonie]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[Agonie]]
*{{ttbc|Icelandic}}: [[kvöl]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[doodsstrijd]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[agonía]]
*{{ttbc|Telugu}}: [[బాధ]] (baadha)
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[fr:agony]]
[[gl:agony]]
[[io:agony]]
[[it:agony]]
[[hu:agony]]
[[pt:agony]]
[[fi:agony]]
[[ta:agony]]
[[vi:agony]]
[[zh:agony]]