==English==

{{rank|result|formed|fight|764|agree|sit|considerable|private}}

===Etymology===
French [[agréer]] to accept or receive kindly, fr. àgré; à (L. ad) + gré good will, consent, liking, fr. Latin gratus pleasing, agreeable. See {Grateful}.

===Pronunciation===
*ə-grē', /əˈɡriː/, /<tt>@"gri:</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-agree.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*:[[Rhymes:English:-iː|Rhymes: -iː]]

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb|agrees|agreeing|agreed}}
# To harmonize in opinion, statement, or action; to be in unison or concord; to be or become united or consistent; to concur; as, all parties agree in the expediency of the  law.
#:    If music and sweet poetry '''agree'''. --Shak.
#:    Their witness '''agreed''' not together. --Mark xiv. 56.
#:    The more you '''agree''' together, the less hurt can your enemies do you. --Sir T. Browne.
# To yield assent; to accede;&mdash;followed by to; as, to agree to an offer, or to opinion.
# To make a stipulation by way of settling differences or determining a price; to exchange promises; to come to terms or to a common resolve; to promise.
#:    '''Agree''' with thine adversary quickly. --Matt. v. 25.
#:    Didst not thou '''agree''' with me for a penny ? --Matt. xx. 13.
# To be conformable; to resemble; to coincide; to correspond; as, the picture does not agree with the original; the two scales agree exactly.
# To suit or be adapted in its effects; to do well; as, the same food does not agree with every constitution.
# (Grammar) To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.

===Phrasal verbs===
# ''agree to'' - to accept; to approve; to promise to follow
# ''agree with'' - to have the same opinion as; to accept; to be in accordance with; (in grammar) to have a form matching (another word)

====Synonyms====
To [[assent]]; [[concur]]; [[consent]]; [[acquiesce]]; [[accede]]; [[engage]]; [[promise]]; [[stipulate]]; [[contract]]; [[bargain]]; [[correspond]]; [[harmonize]]; [[fit]]; [[tally]]; [[coincide]]; [[comport]].

====Antonyms====
*[[disagree]]

====Derived terms====
*[[agreement]]
*[[disagree]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Cornish]]: [[assentya]]
*Croatian: [[složiti se]]
*Czech: [[dohodnout]]
*Danish: [[overensstemme]]
*Dutch: [[afspreken]], [[overeenstemmen]], het [[eens]] zijn, [[toestemmen]]
*[[Esperanto]]: [[akordi]]
*Estonian: [[kokku leppima]]
*Finnish: [[hyväksyä]]
*French: [[accorder]]
*German: [[übereinstimmen]], [[zustimmen]]
*Hungarian: [[egyetért]]
*Icelandic: [[samþykkja]]
*[[Irish]]: [[aontú le]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[concordare]]
*Japanese: [[同じる]]
*[[w:Macedonian language|Macedonian]]: [[се сложува]] (se složuva)
*Norwegian: [[overensstemme]]
*Polish: [[uzgadniać]]
*Portuguese: [[concordar]]
*Russian: [[согласовывать]] (soglasovyvatʹ)
*Slovene: [[strinjati]] se
*Spanish: [[concordar]]
*Swedish: [[överensstämma]]
*[[Walloon]]: [[esse dʼacoird]]
*[[Welsh]]: [[cytuno]]
{{bottom}}

[[fr:agree]]
[[gl:agree]]
[[io:agree]]
[[it:agree]]
[[hu:agree]]
[[pt:agree]]
[[fi:agree]]
[[ta:agree]]
[[vi:agree]]
[[zh:agree]]