==English==
{{see|Ai|AI}}

===Etymology===
* (''sloth'') Originated 1685–95, from [[Portuguese]] from [[Tupi]].

===Interjection===
'''ai'''
# an expression of [[pity]], [[pain]], [[anguish]], [[et cetera]].

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# a three-toed sloth, [[Bradypus tridactylus]], inhabiting forests of southern Venezuela, the Guianas, and northern Brazil.

===References===
* {{R:American Heritage 2000|ai}}
* {{R:Dictionary.com|ai}}

==Albanian==
===Pronoun===
'''ai'''
# [[he]].

==Apalaí==
===Noun===
'''ai'''
# [[penis]].

==Finnish==
===Interjection===
'''ai!'''
#[[ouch]]!
#[[oh]]!
#:''Ai, se olitkin sinä!'' (Oh, it was you!)

====Synonyms====
#(''ouch'') [[aih]], [[au]], [[auts]].

==French==
===Verb===
'''ai'''
# ''first-person singular indicative present of [[avoir]]'', (I) [[have]].

==Italian==
===Preposition===
'''ai'''
# contraction of [[a]] [[i]] (''at the, m.pl.'').

===Homophones===
*[[hai]]

== Japanese ==
===Romaji===
{{romaji|あい}}
#{{japdef|愛| [[love]]}}

==Kriol==
===Etymology===
* (''noun'') from [[English]] ''[[eye]]''.
* (''pronoun'') from [[English]] ''[[I]]''.
* (''adjective'') from [[English]] ''[[high]]''.

===Noun===
'''ai'''
# [[eye]].
# [[headlight]] of a car.
# [[seed]].

===Pronoun===
'''ai'''
# [[I]].

===Adjective===
'''ai'''
#[[high]], [[tall]].

==Mandarin==
{{see|aĩ|āi|ái|ǎi|ài}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|[ ai ]}}

===Adjective===
{{cmn-adj|p|pin=ǎi|pint=ai3|tas=矮}}
# [[short]].

===Noun===
{{cmn-noun|p|pin=ài|pint=ai4|tra=愛|sim=爱|rs=心09}}
# [[love]].

===Verb===
{{cmn-verb|p|pin=ài|pint=ai4|tra=愛|sim=爱|rs=心09}}
# to [[love]]; to be fond of.

===Usage notes===
*When used for people, ài usually refers to romantic love.  When used like this, older Mandarin speakers often describe the use of this term as overly [[肉麻]] (ròumá, ''adj.'' something that gives you the creeps, disgusting).  For this reason, the word {{zh-ts|喜歡|喜欢}} (xǐhuān, to like) might be used instead.  Using the word xǐhuān literally means ''like'', but when used in a romantic context (especially boyfriend/girlfriend), it actually means love.  However, younger Mandarin speakers seem to have been influenced somewhat by Western culture, and are now using the verb ài much more often than was socially acceptable in the past.
*[[矮]]: HSK beginning Mandarin
*{{zh-ts|愛|爱}}: HSK beginning Mandarin

==[[Piemontese]]==
===Noun===
'''ai'''
# [[garlic]].

== Rohingya ==
=== Verb ===
'''ai'''
# [[come]].

==Romanian==
===Etymology===
From the Latin ''[[allium]]''/''[[alium]]''.

===Noun===
'''ai''' {{f}}, pl. ''[[ai]]''
#[[garlic]].

===Derived terms===
*[[aior]]

===See also===
*[[usturoi]]
*[[mujdei]]
*[[ceapă]]

==[[Seri]]==
===Noun===
'''ai'''
#his [[father]].

===Preposition===
'''ai'''
# [[still]] ''(used with nominalized third person verbs)''

==[[Tok Pisin]]==
{{see|eye}}

===Etymology===
From [[English]] ''[[eye#English|eye]]''.

===Noun===
'''ai'''
# [[eye]].
# [[hole]], [[opening]], [[lid]].
# [[tip]].

==[[Torres Strait Creole]]==
===Etymology===
* (''pronoun'') From [[English]] ''[[I]]''.
* (''noun'') From [[English]] ''[[eye]]''.

===Pronoun===
'''ai'''
# [[I]] (see also ''[[mi]]'').

===Noun===
'''ai'''
# [[eye]].

==[[Vietnamese]]==
===Preposition===
'''ai'''
#[[who]].

==[[Volapük]]==
=== Adverb ===
'''ai''' 
# [[always]].
# at all times.
# [[constantly]] (habitually).
# [[ever]] (always).
# [[habitually]].

=== Adverb ===
'''ai (laidio)''' 
# [[forever]].

[[Category:Albanian pronouns]]
[[Category:Apalaí nouns]]
[[Category:English nouns that lack inflection template]]
[[Category:Finnish interjections]]
[[Category:French verb forms]]
[[Category:Italian prepositions]]
[[Category:Kriol adjectives]]
[[Category:Kriol nouns]]
[[Category:Kriol pronouns]]
[[Category:Mammals]]
[[Category:Piemontese nouns]]
[[Category:ro:Plants]]
[[Category:Rohingya verbs]]
[[Category:Romanian words inherited from Latin]]
[[Category:Seri nouns]]
[[Category:Seri prepositions]]
[[Category:tcs:Anatomy]]
[[Category:Tok Pisin nouns]]
[[Category:Tok Pisin nouns]]
[[Category:Torres Strait Creole nouns]]
[[Category:Torres Strait Creole nouns]]
[[Category:Torres Strait Creole pronouns]]
[[Category:Torres Strait Creole pronouns]]
[[Category:Vietnamese prepositions]]
[[Category:Volapük adverbs]]

[[de:ai]]
[[et:ai]]
[[fi:ai]]
[[fr:ai]]
[[gl:ai]]
[[hu:ai]]
[[ie:ai]]
[[io:ai]]
[[it:ai]]
[[ja:ai]]
[[la:ai]]
[[pl:ai]]
[[pt:ai]]
[[sq:ai]]
[[sv:ai]]
[[tpi:ai]]
[[vi:ai]]