{{see|AID}}

==English==
===Pronunciation===
* ''[[RP]]:''
** {{IPA|/eɪl/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪd|-eɪd]]
====Homophones====
* [[aide]]

===Etymology 1===
From Old French ''[[aïde]]'', from Latin ''[[adjuvare]]'' "to assist".
* Known [[cognate]]s: French ''[[aide]]''.

====Noun====
{{en-noun}}
# [[help|Help]]; [[succor]]; [[assistance]]; [[relief]].
#* An unconstitutional mode of obtaining aid. - Hallam
# The person who [[promote]]s or helps in something being done; a [[helper]]; an [[assistant]].
#* It is not good that man should be alone; let us make unto him an aid like unto himself. - Tobit viii. 6
# Something which helps; a [[material]] [[source]] of help.
# An [[aid-de-camp]], so called by abbreviation; as, a general's aid.
# {{UK}} A [[historical]] [[subsidy]] granted to the [[king]] by [[Parliament]]; also, an [[exchequer]] [[loan]].
# {{law}} A [[feudal]] [[pecuniary]] [[tribute]] paid by a [[vassal]] to his [[lord]] on special occasions.

=====Derived terms=====
* [[aid climbing]]
* [[aidful]]
* [[aidless]]

=====Translations=====
'''help; succor; assistance; relief'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[hulp]], [[bijstand]]
* Finnish: [[apu]]
* German: [[Hilfe]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
* Latin: [[auxilium]] {{n}}
* Portuguese: [[ajuda]] {{f}}, [[auxílio]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''a person that promotes or helps in something being done; a helper'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[helper]], [[assistent]], [[hulpje]]
* German: [[Helfer]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
* Portuguese: [[ajudante]] {{c}}, [[auxiliar]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''something which helps; a material source of help'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[hulpmiddel]]
* Finnish: [[apu]]
* German: [[Hilfe]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
* Portuguese: [[ajuda]] {{f}}, [[auxílio]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

'''an aid-de-camp'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[aide-de-camp]], [[adjudant]]
* German: [[Adjutant]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Etymology 2===
From Old French ''[[aïder]]'', from Latin ''[[adjutare]]'', [[frequentative]] of ''[[adjuvare]]'' "to assist".
* Known [[cognate]]s: French ''[[aider]]''.

====Verb====
{{en-verb}}
# {{transitive}} To [[support]]; to give support to; to [[further]] the [[progress]] of; to help; to [[assist]].
#* You speedy helpers... Appear and aid me in this enterprise. - Shakespeare

=====Derived terms=====
* [[aidable]]
* [[aidance]]
* [[aider]]

=====Related terms=====
* [[aidant]]
* [[aide-de-camp]]

=====Translations=====
'''to support'''
{{top}}
* Dutch: [[helpen]], [[bijstaan]]
* Finnish: [[auttaa]]
* French: [[aider]]
* German: [[helfen]]
{{mid}}
* Latin: [[iuvare]]
* Russian: [[помогать]]
* Spanish: [[ayudar]]
{{bottom}}

===Synonyms===
* [[assist]]
* [[befriend]]
* [[cooperate]]
* [[help]]
* [[promote]]
* [[relieve]]
* [[succor]]
* [[support]]
* [[sustain]]

===See also===
*[[AIDS]]

[[fr:aid]]
[[gl:aid]]
[[io:aid]]
[[it:aid]]
[[hu:aid]]
[[pt:aid]]
[[simple:aid]]
[[fi:aid]]
[[vi:aid]]
[[zh:aid]]