==English==

===Etymology===
OE. [[amen]], [[aimen]], [[eimen]], to guess at, to estimate, to aim, OF. [[esmer]], [[asmer]], fr. Latin [[aestimare]] to [[estimate]]; or perh. fr. OF. aesmer; ? (Latin ad) + esmer.

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /eɪm/
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪm|-eɪm]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The pointing of a weapon, as a gun, a dart, or an arrow, in the line of direction with the object intended to be struck; the line of fire; the direction of anything, as a spear, a blow, a discourse, a remark, towards a particular  point or object, with a view to strike or affect it.
# The point intended to be hit, or object intended to be attained or affected.
# Intention; purpose; design; scheme.
# [[AOL]] Instant Messenger

====Synonyms====
*[[aspiration]]
*[[design]]
*[[drift]]
*[[end]]
*[[intention]]
*[[object]]
*[[purpose]]
*[[scheme]]
*[[scope]]
*[[tendency]]

====Translations====
*French: cible {{m}} (all)
*[[Ido]]: [[skopo]]
*Swedish: [[sikte]] (1,3) {{n}}
*Russian: [[цель]] (tsel’) {{f}}, [[намерение]] (namereniye) {{n}}
*Swahili: [[lengo]]

===Intransitive verb===
'''aim'''

# To point or direct a missile weapon, or a weapon which propels as missile, towards an object or spot with the  intent of hitting it; as, to aim at a fox, or at a target.
# To direct the indention or purpose; to attempt the accomplishment of a purpose; to try to gain; to endeavor;&mdash;followed by at, or by an infinitive; as, to aim at distinction; to aim to do well.

===Transitive verb===
'''aim'''

# To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an object; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist  or a blow (at something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice).

====Derived terms====
*[[aim at]]

====Translations====
*French: cibler
*[[Ido]]: [[apuntar]]
*Swedish: [[sikta]]
*Swahili: [[kulenga]]
*spanish: apuntar
[[bg:aim]]
[[el:aim]]
[[fa:aim]]
[[fr:aim]]
[[io:aim]]
[[it:aim]]
[[hu:aim]]
[[pl:aim]]
[[pt:aim]]: [Apontar]
[[fi:aim]]
[[sv:aim]]
[[ta:aim]]
[[vi:aim]]
[[zh:aim]]