==English==
===Etymology===
AS. ealu, akin to Icel., Sw., and Dan. öl, Lith. alus a kind of beer, OSlav. olû beer. Compare with Ir. ol drink, drinking.

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈeɪ.l̩/

===Noun===
'''ale''' (uncountable and countable; plural: [[ales]])

# An intoxicating liquor made from an infusion of malt by fermentation and the addition of a bitter, usually hops.
#:    Note: The word ale, in England and the United States, usually designates a heavier kind of fermented liquor, and the word beer a lighter kind. The word beer is also in common use as the generic name for all malt liquors.
# A festival in English country places, so called from the liquor drunk.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Synonyms====
*[[yill]]

====Derived terms====
*[[alehouse]]

====Translations====
*Chinese: [[強麥酒]], [[强麦酒]]
*Dutch: [[aal]] ''n''
*French: [[bière anglaise]] ''f''
*German: Ale ''n''
*Greek: [[αγγλική μπύρα]] ''f''
*Italian: [[birra inglese]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[エール]] (eeru)
*Korean: [[에일]]
*Portuguese: [[cerveja inglêsa]] ''f''
*Russian: [[эль]] ''m'' (el')
*Spanish: [[cerveza inglesa]] ''f''

----

==Czech==
===Conjunction===
'''ale'''

#[[but]]

----

==Finnish==
===Pronunctiation===
[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /ˈ&#x0251;le/

===Etymology===
Shortened from ''[[alennusmyynti]]'', "selling of goods at bargain prices".

===Noun===
'''ale'''

# (''colloquial'') Selling of goods at bargain prices: [[sale]]

----

==German==
===Noun===
'''Ale''' ''n''

# ale

----

==Italian==
===Noun===
plural of [[ala#Italian|ala]] ''f'' (poetic)

# [[wings]]

----

==Polish==
===Conjunction===
'''ale'''

# [[but]]
----
==Tokipona==
===Noun===
#[[everything]], [[anything]]
#[[life]]
#[[universe]]

====Synonym====
*[[ali]]

===Adjective===
# [[all]], [[every]]
# [[complete]]
# [[whole]]

[[it:ale]]
[[ja:ale]]
[[pl:Ale]]
[[fi:Ale]]