==English==

===Etymology===
{{OE.}} ''on live'', {{AS.}} ''on li&#772;fe'' in life; ''li&#772;fe'' being dat. of ''li&#772;f'' life.

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈlaɪv/

===Adjective===
'''alive'''
# Having [[life]], in opposition to [[dead]]; [[living]]; being in a state in which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant which is alive.
# In a state of [[action]]; in [[force]] or [[operation]]; [[unextinguished]]; [[unexpired]]; [[existent]]; as, to keep the fire alive; to keep the affections alive.
# Exhibiting the [[activity]] and [[motion]] of many living beings; [[swarming]]; [[thronged]].
#: The Boyne, for a quarter of a mile, was '''alive''' with muskets and green boughs. --Macaulay.
# [[sprightly|Sprightly]]; [[lively]]; [[brisk]].
# Having [[susceptibility]]; easily [[impressed]]; having lively [[feeling]]s, as opposed to [[apathy]]; [[sensitive]].
#: Tremblingly '''alive''' to nature's laws. --Falconer.
# Of all living (by way of emphasis).
#: Northumberland was the proudest man '''alive'''. --Clarendon.
#: Note: Used colloquially as an intensive; as, man '''alive'''!
#: Note: Alive always follows the noun which it qualifies.

====Antonyms====
*[[dead]]

====Translations====
;having life
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[levend]]
*Finnish: [[elävä]]
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[beo]]
*Russian: [[жив]], -а, -о
*Scots Gaelic: [[beò]]
{{bottom}}

;in a state of action
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[levendig]]
*Finnish: [[elävä]]
{{mid}}
*Irish: [[beo]]
*Scots Gaelic: [[beò]]
{{bottom}}

;exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[elävä]]
*Irish: [[beo]]
{{mid}}
*Scots Gaelic: [[beò]]
{{bottom}}

;sprightly, lively, brisk
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[eloisa]], [[vilkas]], [[pirteä]], [[reipas]]
{{mid}}
*Scots Gaelic: [[beò]]
{{bottom}}

;having susceptibility
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;of all living
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[lebendig]]
*{{ttbc|Hindi}}: [[सजीव]] (sajīv), [[ज़ीनदा]] (zīndā), [[जीता]] (jītā)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[élénk]], [[életben lévő]], [[eleven]], [[élő]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[vivanta]]
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[vivum|vivus]] {{m}}, [[vivum|viva]] {{f}}, [[vivum]] n
*{{ttbc|Manx}}: [[bio#Manx|bio]]
*{{ttbc|Marathi}}: [[जीवंत]] (jīva.nt)
*{{ttbc|Old English}}: [[cwic]]
*{{ttbc|Slovene}}: [[živ]] {{m}}, [[živa]] {{f}}, [[živo]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[vivo]] {{m}}, [[vivo|viva]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Urdu}}: {{URchar|[[زندہ]]}} (zinda), {{URchar|[[جیتا]]}} (jītā)

{{webster}}

[[Category:English adjectives]]

[[fr:alive]]
[[io:alive]]
[[it:alive]]
[[hu:alive]]
[[pl:alive]]
[[pt:alive]]
[[fi:alive]]
[[vi:alive]]