==English==
===Pronunciation===
ôl'rīt', /ˈɔːlˈraɪt/, /<tt>"O:l"raIt</tt>/

*{{audio|en-us-all_right1.ogg|Audio (US)}},{{audio|en-us-all_right2.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Alternative spellings===
*[[alright]] (''non-standard'')

===Adjective===
'''all right'''
#[[good]]; in acceptable, if not excellent condition
#:''The car is '''all right'''.  It gets me there, anyway.''
#in good [[health]]
#:''I had a headache earlier, but now I'm '''all right'''.''

====Translations====
;good (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[kunnossa]], [[kunnossa]] [[olla|oleva]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;in good health (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[terve]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[c'est bien]], [[c'est ok]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[ålreit]], [[ok]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[w porządku]]
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''all right'''
#[[fairly]] [[well]]
#:''That went '''all right''', I suppose.''

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[hyvin]], [[ihan hyvin]], [[mukavasti]]

===Interjection===
'''[[all]] [[right]]!'''
#Used to [[affirm]], indicate [[agreement]], or [[consent]].
#:'''''All right''', let's go then.''
#Used to indicate [[support]], [[favor]] or [[encouragement]]
#:'''''All right!''' They scored!''
#Used to fill space or pauses.
#:'''''All right''', so what you suggest we do we do next?''
#Used as a general lead-in or beginning.
#:'''''All right''', let's get started.''
#Used to express [[exasperation]] or [[frustration]], often with [[already]]
#:'''''All right''', already! Let me finish what I was doing first, and then we can talk.''
#Used to express enthusiastic approval.
#:''Our football team has scored again!  '''All right!'''''
#Used as a general lead-in or space filler.
#:'''''All right''', where do we begin?''

====Translations====
;Used to affirm, indicate agreement, or consent (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[hyvä on]], [[selvä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Used to indicate support, favor or encouragement (2)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Used to fill space or pauses (3)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[no niin]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Used as a general lead-in or beginning (4)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[no niin]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Used to express exasperation or frustration, often with already (5)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Used to express enthusiastic approval (6)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[jees]]!
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;Used as a general lead-in or space filler (7)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[no niin]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[ålreit]], [[ok]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

====Derived terms====
* [[a'ight]]
* [[a'right]]

===Usage notes===
*'''All right''' can also be used in the literal sense of "everything correct":
*:''He answered the questions quickly, and he got them '''all right'''.''
*The [[inflection]] and [[emphasis]] may vary depending upon what meaning is intended (compare the two US audio pronunciations).
*The spelling '''alright''' (by analogy with "already", "altogether", etc) is non-standard but in widespread use (as of 20 March 2004, having 2,280,000 on Google in comparison to 6,200,000 for "all right", although some of the hits for "all right" will be in the sense of "all correct" described in the note above).

===See also===
*[[all-right]]<!--adjective meaning "satisfactory" as in "it was an all-right party, I suppose"-->
*[[okay]]