==English==

===Determiner=== <!-- Is this what we want? -->
'''all'''

# Every individual or anything of the given class, with no exceptions.  The noun or noun phrase denoting the class must be plural or uncountable.
#: ''All contestants must register at the scorer's table.''
#: ''All flesh is grass.''
#: ''All my friends like classical music.''
# (''with a unit of time'') For the whole of that time, optionally up until the present.  Generally used with units of a day or longer.
#: ''The store is open all day and all night.'' I.e., 24 hours a day on any day.
#: ''I've been working on this all year.'' I.e., from the beginning of the year until now.

===Noun===
'''all'''

# Everyone or everything.
#: ''All gave some; some gave all.'''
# (''with a possessive pronoun'') Everything possible.
#: ''She gave her all, and collapsed at the finish line.''

===Related Terms===
*[[always]]
*[[all right]] or [[alright]]
*[[all in all]]
*[[all the way]]

====See Also====
*[[any]]
*[[each]]
*[[every]]
*[[everyone]]
*[[everything]]
*[[none]]
*[[some]]

====Translations====
*Arabic: [[كُلّ]] (kulː)
*[[Breton]]: [[holl]], an [[holl]]
*Bulgarian: [[всички]] ''pl''
*[[Catalan]]: [[tot]] ''m'', [[tota]] ''f'', [[tots]] ''m, pl'', [[totes]] ''f, pl''
*Czech: [[všechen]] ''f sg'', [[všechna]] ''f sg'', [[všechno]] ''n sg'', [[všichni]] ''m pl'', [[všechny]] ''f+n pl''
*Dutch: [[allemaal]], [[iedereen]], [[al]], [[alle]]
*Esperanto: ''determiner'': [[ĉiuj]] (1), [[ĉiaj]] (1), [[ĉia]] (1), [[la]] [[tutan]] ...-n (2); ''noun'': [[ĉiuj]] (1), [[ĉio]] (1, 2)
*Finnish: [[kaikki]]
*French: [[tout]] ''m'', [[toute]] ''f'', [[tous]] ''m, pl'', [[toutes]] ''f, pl''
*German: [[alle]], [[alles]]
*[[Guaraní]]: [[opa]]
*Indonesian: [[segala]], [[segenap]], [[seluruh]], [[semua]]
*[[Interlingua]]: [[tote]], [[omne]]
*Italian: [[tutto]]
*Japanese: [[全て]] (すべて, subete), [[あらゆる]] (arayuru), [[全体]] ([[ぜんたい]], zentai), [[全]]～ ([[ぜん]], zen-) (used as prefix)
*Korean: [[다]] (da), [[모두]] (modu); [[Hanja]]: 전부 (全部 jeon-bu)
*[[Kurdish]]: [[hemî]], [[hemû]], *[[giş]], [[gişt]], [[gî]], [[gîh]], [[her]], [[pêkve]], [[tev]], [[têkde]], [[xirr]], [[xirrek]]
*Latin: [[omnis]] ''m+f sg'', [[omne]] ''n sg'', [[omnes]] ''m+f pl'', [[omnia]] ''n pl''
*[[Persian]]: [[هَم]] (hæm); [[هَمِه]] (hæme)
*Portuguese: [[todo]] ''m'', [[toda]] ''f'', [[todos]] ''m'' ''pl'', [[todas]] ''f'' ''pl'',[[tudo]]
*Romanian: [[tot]] ''m'', [[toată]] ''f'', [[toţi]] ''m'' ''pl'', [[toate]] ''f'' ''pl''
*[[Romanica]]: [[toto]] ''m'', [[tota]] ''f'', [[totos]] ''m'' ''pl'', [[totas]] ''f'' ''pl'', [[omne]], [[omnes]] ''pl''
*Slovak: [[všetok]] ''m sg'', [[všetka]] ''f sg'', [[všetko]] ''n sg'', [[všetci]] ''m pl'', [[všetky]] ''f+n pl''
*Spanish: [[todo]] ''m'', [[toda]] ''f'', [[todos]] ''m, pl'', [[todas]] ''f, pl''
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[olgeta]]
*[[Tupinambá]]: [[opab]], [[opakatu]]
*[[Turkish]]: [[hepsi]], [[tamamı]]

====Derived terms====
*[[all about]]
*[[all around]]
*[[all together]]
*[[all over]]

===See also===
*[[every]]
*[[∀]]


[[Category:English determiners]]

[[it:all]]
[[ja:all]]
[[pl:All]]
[[pt:All]]