==English==

{{rank|killed|marriage|religious|874|allow|spent|soldiers|speech}}

===Etymology===
From {{ME.}} ''allouen'', from {{OF.}} ''alouer'' , from Medieval {{L.}} ''allaudāre'', "to praise", (ad-) + laudare, merged with ''alouer'', from Medieval Latin ''allocāre'', "to assign".

===Pronunciation===
*[[IPA]]: /ʌˈlaʊd/
*[[AHD]]: /ə-lou'/

===Transitive verb===
'''allow'''
# to grant, give, admit, accord, afford, or yield; to let one have; as, to allow a servant his liberty; to allow a free passage; to allow one day for rest.
#:    ''He was allowed about three hundred pounds a year.'' &mdash;Macaulay.
# to own or acknowledge; to accept as true; to concede; to accede to an opinion; as, to allow a right; to allow a claim; to allow the truth of a proposition.
#:    ''I allow, with Mrs. Grundy and most moralists, that Miss Newcome's conduct . . . was highly reprehensible.'' &mdash;Thackeray.
# to grant (something) as a deduction or an addition; esp. to abate or deduct; as, to allow a sum for leakage.
# to grant license to; to permit; to consent to; as, to allow a son to be absent.

====Synonyms====
[[allot]]; [[assign]]; [[bestow]]; [[concede]]; [[admit]]; [[permit]]; [[suffer]]; [[tolerate]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sallia]] (1), [[antaa]] [[lupa]] (1,4)
*French: [[laisser]] [[:fr:laisser|°]]
*Hungarian: [[enged]] [[:hu:enged|°]]
*German: [[lassen]] [[:de:lassen|°]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[lasciare]] [[:it:lasciare|°]]
*Polish: [[pozwolić]], [[pozwalać]]
*Spanish: [[dejar]] [[:es:dejar|°]]
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive verb===
# to admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement.

===Reference===
*Webster 1913

[[es:allow]]
[[fr:allow]]
[[io:allow]]
[[it:allow]]
[[la:allow]]
[[pt:allow]]
[[fi:allow]]