{{webster}}<br>
{{See|Ally}}
==English==

===Etymology===
From {{OE.}} [[alien]], {{OF.}} [[alier]], French ''[[alier]]'', from {{L.}} ''[[alligare]]'',  to bind to, from ''[[ad]]'', to + ''[[ligare]], to bind.  Compare [[alligate]], [[allay]], [[alloy]] and [[ligament]].

===Pronunciation 1===
*{{AHD|əlī'}}, {{IPA|/əˈlaɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/@"laI/}}

====Verb====
{{en-infl-reg-consonant-y|all|y|}}
# {{transitive}} To [[unite]], or form a [[connection]] between, as between  families by [[marriage]], or between princes and states by [[treaty]], [[league]], or [[confederacy]]; &mdash; often followed by ''to'' or ''with''.
#* O chief! in blood, and now in arms allied. --Pope.
# {{transitive}} To [[connect]] or form a [[relation]] between by [[similitude]], [[resemblance]], [[friendship]], or [[love]].
#* These three did love each other dearly well, And with so firm affection were allied. --Spenser.
#: Note: Ally is generally used in the passive form or reflexively.
#* The virtue nearest to our vice allied. --Pope.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[liittoutua]] (1), [[liittää]] (2), [[yhdistää]] (2)
*Slovak: [[spojiť sa]]

===Pronunciation 2===
*{{ADH|ă'lī}}, {{IPA|/ˈæ.laɪ/}}, {{SAMPA|/"{laI/}}

====Noun====
{{en-noun-reg-y|all|y}}
# One united to another by [[treaty]] or [[league]]; &mdash; usually applied to [[sovereign]]s or [[state]]s; a [[confederate]].
#:* The English soldiers and their French allies. --Macaulay.
# Anything [[associate]]d with another as a [[helper]]; an [[auxiliary]].
#* Science, instead of being the enemy of religion, becomes its ally. --Buckle.
# Anything akin to another by structure, etc.

====Translations====
*Chinese: [[盟友]] (méng yǒu)
*Finnish: [[liittolainen]] (1)
*Slovak: [[spojenec]] ''m''

===Related terms===
* [[alliance]]

===References===
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[io:ally]]
[[pt:ally]]
[[zh:ally]]