{{otheruses}}
'''Alma mater''' is [[Latin]] for "nourishing mother". It was used in [[ancient Rome]] as a title for the mother goddess, and in [[Middle Ages|Medieval]] [[Christianity]] for the [[Virgin Mary]].

This term is taken from the [[motto]] ("Alma Mater Studiorum") of the oldest European university, the [[University of Bologna]], in [[Italy]], founded in A.D. [[1088]], and located in the city of [[Bologna]].

In many modern languages it is usually and principally heard as a term of [[academia]]; Thus, in the [[English language]], it is used as a [[sobriquet]] for the [[university]] or [[college]] a person has attended. In [[American English]], it is also heard in reference to a [[high school]] or [[elementary school]].

Alma mater is sometimes the ''[[incipit]]'' of a school's anthem or song, and may be taken as a title for the genre. The term is more familiar in the United States than in the United Kingdom. In the United States, the term often refers to the entire school song as opposed to simply the opening. The phrase actually appears in one of the best-known of such songs, "[[Michigan State University Fight Song]]" of [[Michigan State University]]:

:On the banks of the Red Cedar,
:There's a school that's known to all;
:Its specialty is winning,
:And those Spartans play good ball;
:Spartan teams are never beaten,
:All through the game they'll fight;
:Fight for the only colors:
:Green and White.

:Go right through for MSU,
:Watch the points keep growing,
:Spartan teams are bound to win,
:They're fighting with a vim.
:Rah! Rah! Rah!
:See their team is weakening,
:We're going to win this game,
:Fight! Fight! Rah! Team, Fight!
:Victory for MSU! 


The word ''[[matriculation]]'' is derived from the Latin root word ''mater''. The term suggests that the students are fed knowledge and taken care of by the educational institution.

==External links==
{{Wiktionary}}
* [http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=alma+mater Definition of ''alma mater''] at [[Merriam-Webster]] Online

{{edu-stub}}

[[Category:Academia]]
[[Category:People by educational institution|*]]

[[de:Alma Mater]]
[[es:Alma Máter]]
[[ka:ალმა მატერი]]
[[nl:Alma Mater]]
[[ru:Альма-матер]]
[[sl:Alma mater]]
[[sv:Alma mater]]