==English==

{{rank|therefore|feet|lay|329|along|four|wish|gone}}

===Etymology===
From Middle English < Old English ''andlang''; prefix ''and-'' (akin to Old Frisian ''ond-'', Old High German ''ant-'', German ''[[ent-]]'', Gothic ''and-'', ''anda-'', Latin ''[[ante]]'', Greek [[αντί]], Sanskrit ''anti'' ('over against') + ''[[lang]]'' ('long'). See [[long]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/əˈlɒŋ/}}
*{{SAMPA|/@"lQN/}}

===Preposition===
'''along'''

# By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise.
#*''They were waiting for me in the drawing-room, which is a very large room, stretching along the entire front of the house, with three long windows reaching down to the floor.'' &mdash;Doyle
# In a line, or with a progressive motion; onward; forward.
#* ''Swiftly and silently he made his way along the track which ran through the meadows.'' &mdash;Doyle

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Arabic: [[بجانب]] (bijá:nib)
*Dutch: [[langs]]
*Finnish: [[pitkin]] (1,2)
*French: [[le long de]]
*German: [[entlang]]
*Italian: [[lungo]]
*Japanese: ...[[に沿って]] (...ni sótte)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[따라서]] (ttaraseo)
*Polish: [[wzdłuż]] (1,2), [[na całej długości]] (1)
*Portuguese: [[ao longo de]]
*Russian: [[вдоль]] (vdol’)
*Spanish: [[a lo largo de]]
*Swedish: [[längs]]
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''along'''

# In company; together.
#* ''I am going to the store. Do you want to come along with me?''

<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913), changed around, new quotes. -->

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[mukana]], [[mukaan]]
*Korean: [[을 따라서]] (eul ttaraseo)
*[[Ido]]: [[alonge]]
*Polish: [[razem]]

===Related terms===
* [[coming along]] — making progress, as in "The project is coming along nicely."
* [[all along]] — all through the course of; during the whole time; throughout.
* to [[get along]] — to get on; to make progress, as in business. ``She’ll get along in heaven better than you or I.'' —Mrs. Stowe.

[[Category:200 English basic words]]

[[fr:along]]
[[ko:along]]
[[io:along]]
[[it:along]]
[[hu:along]]
[[pt:along]]