==English==
===Adverb and noun===
# A common but nonstandard spelling of [[a lot]].
# Occasional misspelling or typographical error for [[allot]]

===Usage notes===
A spelling of '''‘[[a]] [[lot]]’''' in the adverbial senses of "very much or many" and "often" frequent in informal writing but not generally accepted by arbiters of English usage.  When it appears intentionally in print, it is generally either representing the original spelling in a work quoted, or is an attempt by the author to convey poor education in the character using it.

*The ''American Heritage Book of English Usage'' (1996) states that “''alot'' is still considered an error in print” but notes that standard words have formed by fusion of the article with a noun, such as ''[[another]]'' and ''[[awhile]],'' and suggests the possibility that ''alot'' may like them eventually enter standard usage.  [http://www.bartleby.com/64/C003/0200.html]

*The ''Cambridge Guide to English Usage'' (2004) also compares ''alot'' to ''[[awhile]].''  It states ''alot'' to be “still regarded as nonstandard” and notes 50 appearances in the British National Corpus, “almost entirely from three sources: e-mail, TV autocue data, and TV newscripts.”  It suggests that some usages of ''alot'' in typewritten use are to be considered merely typoes of the standard ''a lot'' though its appearance in handwriting and [[typescript]] is “more significant, as the shadow of things to come.” [http://print.google.com/print?id=UA5syoe1kc0C&pg=PA30&lpg=PA30&sig=rtyA7J19FLKXuJ-65S78fDEnON8]

*The ''Columbia Guide to Standard American English'' (1993) calls ''alot'' “substandard” and notes that it is “increasingly found in Informal correspondence and student writing” and “has as yet received no sanction in print except on the op-ed and sports pages.” [http://www.bartleby.com/68/4/304.html]

*Whether "a lot" or "allot" is intended may usually be inferred from the context.

===Quotations===
* '''2000:''' There was '''alot''' of sex discrimination in the 60’s. For one thing there was no sports for girls and in '''alot''' of schools the female teachers were not allowed to get married or they could be fired.  —''Teaching Secondary English,'' ed. Daniel Sheridan.  [in a tenth-grade student's paper] [http://print.google.com/print?id=ejtdcf-taQkC&pg=PA346&lpg=PA346&sig=t0Sp87KqxsH-UGYklzl72NMUz1Q]
* '''2003:''' It was '''alot''' of lumber, '''alot''' of condos, and Joe did not know '''alot''' about either of them, only that it was '''alot''' of money; he hated to throw his money into something he did not know '''alot''' about.  —Matt Janacone, ''Three by the Sea'' [http://print.google.com/print?id=CesAE2xl68QC&pg=PA107&lpg=PA107&sig=X8TjIfaBBBesXWW1E38K-BUtUPU] 
* '''2005:''' She talked about death: “My philosophy on life is it could be '''alot''' better. Like I would’ve never gotten into this mess if I wouldn’t have tried to commit suicide. Actually I was just trying to make myself sick. But then again it could be '''''alot''''' worse! [...]” —Aphrodite Jones, ''Cruel Sacrifice'' [http://print.google.com/print?id=KtlMQCtBzygC&pg=PA248&lpg=PA248&sig=2mA_bCMZr0l0dCLfhRWe4cBdmd4]
[[Category:English adverbs]]
[[Category:English verbs]]
----
==Kiput==
===Etymology===
From Proto-North Sarawak *''alud''.
===Noun===
'''alot'''

# [[boat]]
[[Category:Kiput nouns]]