
== GOVERNMENT TERRORISM: THE INTRODUCTION ==


Government terrorism is a highly controversial term which has caused much argument. Research into the actions of the government which may suggest it was involved in acts of terrorism to further its goals has been going on for a long time, although it is very rarely touched on by mainstream media. This is mainly because the owner of the media channel(s) does not want "anti-Government" material to be seen by the public, as it may lead to violence or outrage. He or she may also have financial, or other interest or interests in the events taking place without blame being shifted from "Al-Qaeda members of an Islamic clan", to the government whose country was the victim of this event.


== "GOVERNMENT TERRORISM EXISTS" ==


Government terrorism exists. There is little counter-argument, and '''''NONE'' that supports itself with proof''' to discredit the argument that takes the opposite side. There is much proof to suggest that George W. Bush's father was intimately involved in the murder of John Fitzgerald Kennedy (former President of the United States of America). There is also proof that is supported by documented, mainstream media video evidence [from "America Remembers" by CNN], which shows that there were bombs in the World Trade Center buildings that collapsed (Buildings 1, 2 and 7) on "9/11", the 11th of September 2001.


== THE COVER-UP OF THE COLLAPSE OF BUILDING 7 WAS A FRAUD ==


Building 7 is the biggest fraud which is contained within the events of the 9/11 tragedy [whether it was orchistrated by the government of the United States or not, it was still, and IS still, a tragedy]. It was hit by nothing besides falling debris, and had fires only on floors 7 and 12, yet collapsed at around 17:30 on the 11th of September 2001, in the fashion which is only seen otherwise in controlled demolitions, and in the Twin Towers.


== AN INTRODUCTION TO THE "TRUTH-SEEKERS" AND INFORMATION ABOUT THE OKC BOMBING - 19/04/1995 ==


Another discussion point for "truth-seekers", denounced as conspiracy "theorists" and "loonies" by corporate media, is the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building of Oklahoma on Patriots' Day, 1995 (April the 19th).


== PATRIOTS' DAY - 19/04/1775, WACO - 19/04/1993, OKC - 19/04/1995: http://www.prisonplanet.com/articles/april2005/190405perspective2.htm HMMMM...... ==


'''This is, suspiciously, two years EXACTLY after a fire killed all but 7 of the occupants of the WACO Compound.'''


== THE ALFRED P. MURRAH FEDERAL BUILDING PEACEFUL PLACE UNTIL THE GOVERNMENT NEEDED PEOPLE TO BLAME FOR TERRORISM ON AMERICAN SOIL, HUH?? ==


The Oklahoma Federal Building's bombing is said to have been masterminded and carried out by one man: Timothy McVeigh. But the official story has '''NO''' evidence to back it up, and the FBI is currently, after '''nine''' years, holding 12 [yes, '''''12'''''] security camera tapes which would show who committed the atrocity. Many eye-witness accounts, and documented interviews show people who saw and/or heard the bombing reporting two bombs or more. EVEN LOCAL AND '''NATIONAL NEWS REPORTED TWO OR THREE BOMBS''' being involved in the bombing. Two, or MAYBE MORE, bombs were being carried in the back of a bomb disposal truck when no less than '''four''' cameras from local and NATIONAL NEWS transmitting live pictures to news centres of channels such as Channel 9, FOX, and NBC.
The 12 security camera video tapes which show "John Doe Number Two" are being held under "NATIONAL SECURITY", and are apparently going to be part of an investigation, which has probably only happened in General Benton K. Partin's dreams [Benton K. Partin is a former Army General, and critic of the official story of "The Oklahome Bombing"].


== "JOHN DOE NUMBER TWO": FROM OKLAHOMA TO BOSTON ==


"John Doe Number Two" is a man whose identity is obviously unknown to the public (since the name "John Doe" refers to an person with unknown identity in the U.S.A.), but is reported by Channel 9 shortly after April 19, 1995 to have been intimately involved in "The Oklahoma Bombing", maybe to the point where '''HE''' set the bombs off [not Timothy McVeigh]). He is also reported to have been working at Boston Airport, where two of the four planes that were involved in the "terrorist attacks" took off from. [[[[Note: Nichols, who was also found guilty of being involved in the bombing in '95 of the Federal Building in Oklahoma was white. "John Doe Number Two" was Eastern-European. The FBI higher-ups tried to get the officers who were interviewed to say that the man they saw with McVeigh was Nichols. All of them denied that, and said it was a Middle-Eastern man. It's funny how their own officers won't go with their story. Do they have something to hide??]]]]


== "THE FINAL JIHAD: WHEN THE "BEST OF THE WORST" FINALLY COME FOR US" ==


Another point to note is a certain book released '''''FOUR YEARS BEFORE THE BOMBING''''', which is called "The Final Jihad: When the "Best of the Worst" Finally Come for Us".


== TOM MCVEY: "STOPPED FOR BROKEN TAIL-LIGHT". TIM MCVEIGH: "STOPPED FOR MISSING NUMBER PLATE". ANYONE ELSE SEE SIMILARITIES?? ==

'''''"Four years before the devastating Oklahoma City bombing Martin Keating wrote of a terrorist network in Oklahoma with a central figure named Tom McVey. He tells of the terrorist's arrest based on a minor traffic violation by an unsuspecting highway patrolman."''''' Source [scroll down until you see yellow highlights]:
http://66.102.9.104/search?q=cache:933X8xYa2GIJ:www.apfn.org/thewinds/archive/government/grand_jury02-99.html+%22the+final+jihad%22&hl=en
for the original, un-"graffiti'd" version:
http://www.apfn.org/thewinds/archive/government/grand_jury02-99.html


== WRITTEN MID-1991. BOMBING MID-1995. BOOK PUBLISHED AFTER THE BOMBING. WONDER WHY?? ==


[[[[Note: THIS BOOK WAS WRITTEN '''''FOUR YEARS BEFORE''''' THE BOMBING OF THE ALFRED P. MURRAH BUILDING]]]]. This seems very suspicious, and the facts, cocnclusions and suspicion can be investigated with a simple "search engine" search of the '''book's title, the name of the author [Martin Keating], with reference to the character in the book, Tom McVey'''. I am sure actual text MUST be available concerning the matter SOMEWHERE on the internet. If someone could send a link via e-mail to me [rorystruthers@hotmail.com, rgstrthrs@yahoo.com, rgstrthrs@aol.com or twista_rebelxd@yahoo.com].
Thank you for any help you can give me.


== THE PROOF: LINKS TO IT ==


Finally, I would just like anyone who has not been convinced, or would like proof of these statements I have been presenting as "facts", to follow the links below:


== FOR THE ADMINISTRATORS: THIS IS NOT A BIG '''AD'''. THIS IS A BIG '''PLEA''' FOR TRUTH-SPREADING ==


[[[[Note: this is not advertising, this is uncontested, "uncontestible" evidence. This is for "truth-seekers", not "Bush-haters". This is in the meaning "anti-corruption", not "anti-government".


== PRESENTING: ALEX JONES A.K.A. "THE FATHER OF THE TRUTH MOVEMENT"... ...ALONG SIDE: PHIL JAYHAN A.K.A. THE "TRUTH- AND SHELTER-SEEKER"... ...AND THE WHOLE TEAM OF PHYSICIANS AT PHYSICS911.NET, FAMOUS FOR THE "LET'S ROLL" EXPERIMENT ==


for the "un-convinced":
http://www.infowars.com , http://www.prisonplanet.com, http://www.letsroll911.org, http://www.physics911.net.


== VIDEO EVIDENCE: FOR THE GOVERNMENT-LOVING EYES TO DENY, FOR THE FREEDOM-LOVERS TO ACCEPT ==


for video links concerning Government terrorism:


== THE MULTI-VIDEO-CARRYING LINKS FOR YOU ALL TO CHERISH LIKE CODEC MOMENTS ==


http://www.supportthetruth.com, http://www.question911.com/links.php.


== THE GREATEST FILM MADE SO FAR EXPOSING GOVERNMENT TERRORISM: "9/11: THE ROAD TO TYRANNY" ==


for "9/11: The Road To Tyranny", which has video evidence of corruption and government involvment in both the OKC bombing and 9/11 [as well as information on Nero's burning of Rome, the Reichstag Fire and the bombing of the American ship, the USS Maine, among others]:
http://www.archive.org/download/911theRoadtoTyranny/911theroadtotyranny.wmv


== ERIC HUFSCHMID [WHICH I BELIEVE IS PRONOUNCED "ERIK HUF-SCHMID" (for those of you confused on where the syllables change over) ==


for "Are the Prisoners Frightened", which is a SHORT, 12-MINUTE, 12-SECOND DOCUMENTARY detailing the use of bombs inside the World Trade Center [the Twin Towers and Building 7], can be found here:
http://www.erichufschmid.net.nyud.net:8090/AreTheCriminalsFrightened.wmv


== "LOOSE CHANGE" ["MORE LIKE LOOSE, EXPLOSION-SURVIVING PASSPORTS PICKED UP BY THE FBI IN NEW YORK STREETS"] (YOU'LL SEE WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT WHEN - '''WHEN''' - YOU WATCH THIS (NOT '''IF''', OKAY??) ==


for "Loose Change", follow these two links for parts 1 & 2: ONE HOUR LONG, VERY MUCH WORTH IT:



== AND FINALLY... ==


BE SURE TO LOOK AROUND IF YOU ARE UNCONVINCED, OR WOULD LIKE TO RIDICULE ME JUST BECAUSE I DON'T BELIEVE EVERYTHING THAT HAS "OFFICIAL" STAMPED ABOVE IT IN CAPITALS AND RED INK. INVESTIGATE 9/11, AND NOW 7/7. WEATHER CONTROL IS 50 YEARS OLD. THIS MEANS THAT THE RECENT THREE-STATE HURRICANE [KATRINA] COULD BE THE WORK OF THE GOVERNMENT, ALTHOUGH I'M NOT SAYING IT IS [I'm memely suggesting you should investigate this argument as well].


== ...INVESTIGATE... ==


SO INVESTIGATE ALL THE EVENTS WHICH NEED TO BE QUESTIONED, AND REALISE THE BIGGER PICTURE, AND THE VATICAN'S PLACE IN ALL OF THIS.


== ...DIG DEEP... ==


Dig deep [very deep] and don't stop until you are satisfied you '''KNOW''' [and absolutely '''KNOW'''] THE TRUTH in its entirety, and all of the implications of it. Thank you for reading all of the above [providing you actually did] and any more information at all can be sent to all or any of the e-mail addresses listed above [before the video and website links].


== ...AND THANK YOU ==


Thank you once again for your interest and any help provided,


== KANDID ==


“Kandid"