==English==

===Etymology===
From Latin verb '''[[alternare]]''', ''take turns'', '''[[alternus]]''', ''one after another'', ''by turns'', from '''[[alter]]''', ''other''. See '''[[altern]]''', '''[[alter]]'''.

===Pronunciation===
Noun and adjective senses:
*IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈɔl.tɚ.nət/
*{{audio|en-us-alternate-noun-adj.ogg|Audio (US)}}

Verb senses:
*IPA: [[WEAE]] /ɔl.tɚˈnet/
*{{audio|en-us-alternate-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
'''alternate''' {{notcomp}}

# Being or succeeding by turns; one following the other in succession of time or place; by turns first one and then  the other; hence, reciprocal.
#:Quotation:  And bid '''alternate''' passions fall and rise. -Pope
# {{math}} Designating the members in a series, which regularly intervene between the members of another series, as the odd or even numbers of the numerals; every other; every second.
#:Example:  the '''alternate''' members 1, 3, 5, 7, etc.
# [[Other]]; alternative. (US usage)
# {{botany}} Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of the stem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence. --Gray.

====Translations====
'''Being or succeeding by turns'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''mathematics: Designating the members in a series'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Other; alternative'''  (US usage only). 
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Botany: Distributed, as leaves'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# That which alternates with something else; [[vicissitude]]. 
#:Quotation:  Grateful '''alternates''' of substantial. -Prior
# A [[substitute]]; one designated to take the place of another, if necessary, in performing some duty.  (US usage only.  In British English, only [[alternative]] may be used to suggest "a substitute").
# {{math}} A [[proportion]] derived from another proportion by interchanging the [[means]].
# Other; alternative.
# {{US}} A replacement of equal or [[greater]] value or function.

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-other-e|alternat|e}}

# {{transitive}}: To perform by turns, or in succession; to cause to succeed by turns; to interchange regularly.
# {{intransitive}}: To happen, succeed, or act by turns; to follow  reciprocally in place or time;&mdash;followed by with; as, the flood and ebb tides alternate with each other.
# {{intransitive}}: To vary by turns; as, the land alternates between rocky hills and sandy plains.

====Translations====
'''To perform by turns'''
{{top}}
*German: [[alternieren]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To happen, succeed, or act by turns'''
{{top}}
*German: [[alternieren]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To vary by turns'''
{{top}}
*German: [[alternieren]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[alternate allegation]]
*[[alternate angles]]
*[[alternate generation]]

===See also===
*[[alternative]]
*[[variant]]


{{webster}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[fr:alternate]]
[[io:alternate]]
[[pl:alternate]]
[[pt:alternate]]