==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪzɪŋ|-eɪzɪŋ]]

===Adjective===
'''amazing'''

# Causing [[wonder]] and [[amazement]]; possessing uniquely [[wonderful]] qualities.

====Related terms====
*[[amaze]]
*[[amazed]]
*[[amazement]]
*[[amazingly]]
*[[amazingness]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Bulgarian: [[удивителен]]
*Finnish: [[hämmästyttävä]]
*French: [[étonnant]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[erstaunlich]], [[unglaublich]]
*Russian: [[изумительный]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''amazing'''

# Action when something is causing [[wonder]]

====Quotations====
#*'''1848''', John Bunyan and Robert Philip, ''The Greatness of the Soul: And the Unspeakableness of the Loss Thereof'', page 29, T. Nelson
#*:How many things have men found out to the '''amazing''' of one another, to the wonderment of one another, to the begetting of endless commendations of one another in the world
#*'''1909''', John Fryer and William Crooke, ''A New Acount of East India and Persia: Being Nine Years' Travels, 1672-1681'', page 92, Hakluyt Society
#*:Fancies to be persuaded of the confused Articulation of Multitudes met as in a Fair, conversing and making a chattering, to the '''amazing''' of them all.
#*'''1996''' August 5, Tim Behrendsen, "Tim Behrendsen Lost and Spaced THE FINAL TRY", <tt>rec.games.computer.quake.misc</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:'''Amazing''' is judged relative what already exists, and Quake has the best underwater effects so far.
#*'''1997''' November 30, Sir Frederick, "Pro-Mormons are amazing also", <tt>alt.religion.mormon.fellowship</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:Reality, especially God's Reality is amazing. For instance that there is something rather than nothing is amazing. [''...''] '''Amazing''' is amazing.
#*'''1999''' July 13, Irma Dobkin and Mary Jo Peterson, ''Gracious Spaces'', page xix, McGraw-Hill Professional
#*:The '''amazing''' is happening.
#*'''2000''' March 24, "Shadow", "Return of the Fulgore Rant!", <tt>alt.fan.dragons</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:All that is impossibly amazing is considered nothing, and the impossibly '''amazing''' is considered normal.
#*'''2001''' February 3, Brian, "D3 weird FPS", <tt>alt.games.descent</tt> ''Usenet''
#*:The '''amazing''' is that, in EXACTLY the same situation, the demo2 doesn't show this problem.
#*'''2003''' June 23, Thomas Bernhard, ''Three Novellas'', page 31, University of Chicago Press
#*:Everything that amazes has its method, until we notice that the '''amazing''' is not amazing, has no method.
#*'''2004''' October 23, MgClearwater, "George says: Joe and Brian stay..", <tt>alt.sports.baseball.ny-yankees</tt>, ''Usenet''
#*:Sheffield is an amazing athlete, how much of the '''amazing''' is provided from the Chemlab.
#*'''2006''' May 16, Simon Baird, "monkeyGTD is amazing- a few questions and suggestions", <tt>GTD TiddlyWiki</tt>, ''Google goups''
#*:Cool! Of course 99% of the '''amazing''' is due to the "powered by TiddlyWiki" part of MonkeyGTD.. :)

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[hämmästyttäminen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[io:amazing]]
[[it:amazing]]
[[pt:amazing]]
[[fi:amazing]]
[[vi:amazing]]