==English==
===Etymology===
Latin [[amen]], Gr. 'amh`n, Hebrew ame&#772;n certainly, truly.

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /eɪˈmɛn/

===Interjection, Adverb, or Noun===
# An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief. When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily.
#:    Note: It is used as a noun, to denote: (a) concurrence in belief, or in a statement; assent; (b) the final word or act; (c) Christ as being one who is true and faithful.
#:    And let all the people say, Amen. --Ps. cvi. 48.
#:    Amen, amen, I say to thee, except a man be born again, he can not see the kingdom of God. --John ii. 3. Rhemish Trans.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

This Hebrew word means firm, and hence also faithful (Rev. 3:14). In Isa. 65:16, the Authorized Version has "the God of truth," which in Hebrew is "the God of Amen." It is frequently  used by our Saviour to give emphasis to his words, where it is translated "verily." Sometimes, only, however, in John's Gospel, it is repeated, "Verily, verily." It is used as an epithet of the Lord Jesus Christ (Rev. 3:14). It is found singly and sometimes doubly at the end of prayers  (Ps. 41:13; 72:19; 89:52), to confirm the words and invoke the  fulfilment of them. It is used in token of being bound by an oath (Num. 5:22; Deut. 27:15-26; Neh. 5:13; 8:6; 1 Chr. 16:36). In the primitive churches it was common for the general audience  to say "Amen" at the close of the prayer (1 Cor. 14:16). The promises of God are Amen; i.e., they are all true and sure  (2 Cor. 1:20). 
<!-- material copied from Easton's 1897 Bible Dictionary -->

====Translations====
*Hebrew: [[אמן]]

[[nl:amen]]