{{see|ān|án|ǎn|àn|än|ån}}

==English==
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[ān]]''

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-æn|-æn]]

===Indefinite article===
[[Category:English articles]]
'''an'''

#Used when the noun may refer to one of several possibilities. ''An egg'' could be any of several eggs, while ''the egg'' refers to a specific egg (already mentioned or known).


====Usage Notes====
This usage note refers to both the indefinite article and the preposition.
The indefinite article is spelt ''[[an]]'' before vowel sounds, and ''[[a]]'' before consonant sounds. For example:

* ''a dog''
* ''an egg''
* ''an hour'' (''h'' is not pronounced)
* ''a hog'' (''h'' is pronounced)
* ''a yak'' (''y'' counts as a consonant)
* ''a user'' (''u'' is pronounced as ''yu'')
* ''an umbrella''
* ''a woman'' (''w'' counts as a consonant)
* ''a one'' (pronouced the same as "won")
* ''an onion''

There is one occasional exception.  The form ''an'' is sometimes used before ''h'' even when the ''h'' is pronounced.  The usual example is ''an historic occasion.''  Though current in some dialects that pronounce the ''h'', this is considered by many to be affected or pedantic.

See also the [[w:article (grammar)|Wikipedia article]] about articles.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Afrikaans: [['n]]
*Arabic: ''not used''
*[[Aragonese]]: [[un]] {{m}}, [[una]] {{f}}
*[[Breton]]: [[un]] ''(before the letters n, d, t and h)''; [[ul]] ''(before the letter l)''; [[ur]] ''(before other letters)''
*[[Catalan]]: [[un]] {{m}}, [[una]] {{f}}
*Chinese: [[一]] (yī), [[一个]] (yīge)
*Czech: ''not used''
*Danish: [[en#Danish|en]] {{c}}, [[et#Danish|et]] {{n}}
*Dutch: [[een]]
*Esperanto: ''not translated''
*Fijian: [[e dua na]]
*Finnish: ''not used''
*French: [[un]] {{m}}, [[une]] {{f}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[in#Frisian|in]]
*[[Galician]]: um {{m}}, umha {{f}}
*[[Georgian]]: ''not used''
*German: [[ein]] {{m}} ''and'' {{n}} (1), [[eine]] {{f}} (1)
*Greek, Modern: [[ένας]] (énas) {{m}}, [[μία]] (mía) {{f}}, [[ένα]] (éna) {{n}}
*Hebrew: ''not used''
*Hindi: [[एक]]
*[[Huave]]: [[nop]]
*Hungarian: [[egy]]
{{mid}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[un]]
*Italian: [[un]] {{m}}, [[uno]] {{m}}, [[una]] {{f}}, [[un']] {{f}}
*Japanese: ''not used''
*Korean: ''not used''
*Kurdish: [[yek]], [[-ek]], [[-yek]]
*Latin: ''not used''
*Lithuanian: ''not used''
*Norwegian: [[en#Norwegian|en]] {{m}}, [[ei#Norwegian|ei]] {{f}}, [[et#Norwegian|et]] {{n}}
*[[Novial]]: ''usually not used, otherwise'' [[un]]
*Polish: ''not used''
*Portuguese: [[um]] {{m}}, [[uma]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[un]] {{m}}, [[o#Romanian|o]] {{f}}
*Russian: ''not used''
*Slovak: ''not used''
*Spanish: [[un]] {{m}}, [[una]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[en]] {{c}}, [[ett]] {{n}}
*[[Telugu]]: [[ఒక]]
*Thai: {{THchar|[[หนึ่ง]]}} (nèùng)
*Turkish: [[bir]] <!--"Küçük bir kebap, lütfen!" = "A small kebab, please!"-->
*[[Tz'utujil]]: [[jun]]
*Vietnamese: [[cái]] (''for inanimate objects''), [[con]] (''for animals, people, etc.''), [[cuốn]] (''for books, etc.''), [[người]] (''for people''), [[quả]] (''for fruit')
*[[Võro]]: ''not used''
{{bottom}}

===Conjunction===
'''an'''

#{{archaic}} [[If]], so long as.
#: ''An it please you, my lord.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*[[Esperanto]]: [[se]]
*Fijian: [[e dua na]]
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: [[si]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''an'''

#The first [[letter]] of the [[Georgian]] [[alphabet]].

===Preposition===
'''an'''
# In each; to or for each.
#: ''I was only going twenty miles an hour''
#: ''The consultant was paid $1000 a day.''

====Etymology====
From the Old English preposition ''[[an#Old English|an]]''/''[[on#Old English|on]]''.

====Synonyms====
*[[per]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*German: [[pro]], [[den]] {{m}} ''and'' {{n}}, [[die]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Novial: [[po]]
{{bottom}}

{{rank|one|so|me|41|an|we|who|said}}

-----

==French==
[[Category:fr:Time]]
===Noun===
'''an''' ''m''

# a [[year]]

===Synonyms===
*[[année]]

----

==German==
===Etymology===
Old High German ''[[ana]]''
===Preposition===
'''an'''

# [[on]]
# [[by]]
# [[at]]
#: ''Ich hänge das Bild an die Wand'' : I hang the picture on the wall.
#: ''Das Bild hangt an der Wand'' : The picture hangs on the wall.
#: ''Schauen Sie an die Tafel'' : Look at the blackboard.
Note: The preposition "an" is used with accusative case if the verb shows movement from one place to another, whereas it is used with dative case if the verb shows location.

[[Category:German prepositions]]

----

==Irish==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|[ən]}}; between consonants {{IPA|[ə]}}

===Definite article===
Form of the [[definite article]] used in the following cases:
:[[nominative]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] (attaches '''t-''' to a vowel, e.g. '''an t-[[uisce]]''' 'the water')
:[[nominative]] [[singular]] [[feminine]] (triggers [[lenition]], e.g. '''an [[bean#Irish|bhean]]''' 'the woman')
:[[genitive]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] (triggers [[lenition]], e.g. '''an [[páiste|pháiste]]''' 'of the child')
:[[dative]] [[singular]] [[masculine]] and [[feminine]] (triggers [[eclipsis]], e.g. '''ag an [[cailín|gcailín]]''' 'at the girl')

===Interrogative particle===
Used to form direct and indirect questions; triggers [[eclipsis]]; takes the [[dependent]] form (when available) of irregular verbs.
:'''An''' bhfuil tú ag éisteacht? &mdash; ''Are you listening?''
:Níl a fhios agam '''an''' bhfuil sé anseo &mdash; ''I don't know if/whether he is here''

[[Category:Irish articles]]

----

==Japanese==
===Romaji===
{{romaji|あん}}
# {{japdef|案|[[plan]], [[scheme]]}}
# {{japdef|餡|[[bean paste]]}}

----

==Latin==
===Interrogative conjunction===
'''an'''
# can it be that

[[Category:Latin conjunctions]]

----

==Old English==
===Pronunciation===
{{IPA|/aːn/}}
===Etymology===
Common Germanic *''[[ainaz]]'', from Indo-European ''*oinos''.  Germanic cognates include Old Frisian ''ān'', Old Saxon [[en|ēn]] (Dutch [[een]]), Old High German [[ein]] (German [[ein]]), Old Norse [[einn]], Gothic [[𐌰𐌹𐌽𐍃]].  The IE root is also the source of Latin [[unus]], Greek [[οινος]], Old Irish [[oen]].

===Cardinal numeral/Pronoun===
'''ān'''

# [[one]]

===Indefinite article===
'''ān'''

# [[a]], [[an]]

===Adjective===
'''ān'''

# [[lone]]
# [[sole]]

[[Category:Old English articles]]
[[Category:Old English adjectives]]
[[Category:Old English cardinal numbers]]
[[Category:Old English pronouns]]

----

==Romanian==
===Etymology===
from the Latin ''[[annus]]'', "[[year]]"
===Noun===
'''an''' {{m}}, pl. ''[[ani]]''
#[[year]].
[[Category:Romanian nouns]]
[[Category:Romanian words inherited from Latin]]
----
==Torres Strait Creole==
===Etymology===
From English ''[[hand#English|hand]]''.
===Noun===
'''an'''

# [[hand]], [[lower arm]]
# [[flipper]]
[[Category:Torres Strait Creole nouns]]
[[Category:tcs:Anatomy]]
----

==Turkish==
===Noun===
'''an'''

#[[moment]]

[[Category:Turkish nouns]]

[[de:an]]
[[et:an]]
[[el:an]]
[[fr:an]]
[[gl:an]]
[[ko:an]]
[[io:an]]
[[it:an]]
[[ku:an]]
[[la:an]]
[[hu:an]]
[[nl:an]]
[[ja:an]]
[[pl:an]]
[[pt:an]]
[[ru:an]]
[[simple:an]]
[[fi:an]]
[[sv:an]]
[[ta:an]]
[[vi:an]]
[[zh:an]]