{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
French [[anatomie]] ← Latin [[anatomia]] ← Greek [[ανατομία]], from [[Ancient Greek]] '''[[ανατομή]]''' (''anatome'') "dissection", from '''[[ανα-]]''' (''ana'') "afresh, again, anew, over" + '''[[τομή]]'''  (''tome'') "cut, incision, gash".

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈnæt.ə.mi/

===Noun===
'''anatomy''' (''plural:'' '''[[anatomies]]''')

# The art of dissecting, or artificially separating the  different parts of any organized body, to discover their  situation, structure, and economy; dissection.
# The science which treats of the structure of organic bodies; anatomical structure or organization.
#:    ''Let the muscles be well inserted and bound together, according to the knowledge of them which is given us by anatomy.'' --Dryden.
#:    ''Animal anatomy'' is also called [[zomy]] or [[zootomy]]; ''vegetable anatomy,'' [[phytotomy]]; and ''human anatomy,'' [[anthropotomy]].
#:    [[Comparative anatomy]] compares the structure of different kinds and classes of animals.
# A treatise or book on anatomy.
# The act of dividing anything, corporeal or intellectual, for the purpose of examining its parts; analysis; as, the anatomy of a discourse.
# A skeleton; anything anatomized or dissected, or which has the appearance of being so.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese (simplified): [[解剖学]] (iěpōu xué)
*Chinese (traditional): [[解學剖學]]
*Dutch: [[anatomie]]
*French: [[anatomie]] {{f}}
*German: [[Anatomie]] {{f}}
*Greek: [[ανατομία]] (anatomía) {{f}}
*Italian: [[anatomia]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[解剖学]] (かいぼうがく, kaibōgaku)
{{mid}}
*Korean: [[해부학]] (haebuhak)
*Latin: [[anatomia]] {{f}}
*Novial: [[anatomia]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[کالبدشناسی]]}} (kalbod-shenasi)
*Portuguese: [[anatomia]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[анатомирование]] (anatomirovánije) {{n}}
*Spanish: [[anatomía]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[el:anatomy]]
[[fr:anatomy]]
[[gl:anatomy]]
[[io:anatomy]]
[[it:anatomy]]
[[hu:anatomy]]
[[pt:anatomy]]
[[fi:anatomy]]
[[ta:anatomy]]
[[vi:anatomy]]
[[zh:anatomy]]