==English==
===Etymology===
Late Latin ''[[anathema]]'' (a [[curse]], a person cursed, an [[offering]]) < Greek ''[[ανάθεμα]]'' (1.a [[votive offering]]; 2. to be formally set apart; 3. banished, exiled, excommunicated 4. denounced, later corrupting into [[cursed]])< Greek ''[[anatithenai]]'' (to [[dedicate]], set apart)< Greek ''[[ana-]]'' ([[up]])< PIE ''[[*an-]]'' ([[on]]) + Greek ''[[tithenai]]'' (to put, to place)< PIE ''[[*dhe-]]''(to set, put). 

The Greek term was used to translate the Biblical Hebrew term ''[[herem]]'', after which the Greek term took on some of the meanings of the Hebrew term. However, it was not a [[calque]], as the Greek word was already in use before.

In Hebrew the term indicated offerings made to the divinity which were suspended from the roof or walls of temples for the purpose of being exposed to view. Thus ''herem'' signifies a thing offered to God. The word (''herem'' or its Greek equivalent) is sometimes used in this sense in the Old and New Testaments: because it was associated with setting apart (for God), it gradually came to have the meaning as set apart (from God).

===Noun===

'''anathema''' (plural '''anathamas''')

#A ban or curse pronounced with religious solemnity by ecclesiastical authority, and accompanied by excommunication. Hence: Denunciation of anything as accursed.
#An [[imprecation]]; a [[curse]]; a [[malediction]].
#Any person or thing anathematized, or cursed by ecclesiastical authority.
===Reference===
New Advent: The Catholic on-line encyclopedia.
[[Category:Greek derivations]]

{{wikipedia}}

[[fr:anathema]]
[[io:anathema]]
[[it:anathema]]
[[nl:anathema]]
[[pl:anathema]]
[[pt:anathema]]