==English==

===Etymology===
Old English anger, angre, affliction, anger, from Icel. angr affliction, sorrow; akin to Dan. anger regret, Swed. anger regret, AS. ange oppressed, sad, Latin [[angor]] a strangling, anguish, angere to strangle, Gr. ? to strangle, Skr. amhas pain, and to. anguish, anxious, quinsy, and perh. awe, ugly. The word seems to have originally meant to choke, squeeze. ?.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈæŋ.ɚ/}}
*:Rhymes: [[rhymes:English:-æŋɡə(r)|-æŋɡə(r)]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# A strong [[feeling]] of [[displeasure]], [[hostility]] or [[antagonism]] towards someone or something, usually combined with an [[urge]] to [[harm]].

====Synonyms====
*[[resentment]]; [[wrath]]; [[rage]]; [[fury]]; [[passion]]; [[ire]] [[gall]]; [[choler]]; [[indignation]]; [[displeasure]]; [[vexation]]; [[grudge]]; [[spleen]].

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Hebrew: [[כעס]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Telugu: [[కోపం]] (kOpaM)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To cause such a feeling of antagonism.

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Chinese:
*:Simplified: [[发怒]] (fānù)
*:Traditional: [[發怒]]
*Dutch: [[boosheid]], [[woede]]
*Finnish: [[viha]], [[suuttumus]]
*French]]: [[colère]]
*German: [[Ärger]]
*Ido: irato
*Italian: [[ira]] {{f}}, [[rabbia]] {{f}}, [[collera]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Lithuanian: [[pyktis]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[złość]] {{f}}, [[gniew]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[ira]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[ilska]]
{{bottom}}

===References===
{{R:Century 1911}}
{{R:Webster 1913}}

[[Category:Emotions]]
[[Category:Old Norse derivations]]

[[el:anger]]
[[fa:anger]]
[[fr:anger]]
[[gl:anger]]
[[ko:anger]]
[[io:anger]]
[[it:anger]]
[[la:anger]]
[[hu:anger]]
[[ja:anger]]
[[pt:anger]]
[[fi:anger]]
[[ta:anger]]