==English==

{{rank|new|years|always|170|another|right|each|between}}

===Etymology===
[[An]] [[a]], [[one]] + [[other]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈnʌð.ɚ/
*{{audio|en-us-another.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌðə(r)|-ʌðə(r)]]

===Pronoun or Adjective===
'''another'''
# One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional one, similar in likeness or in effect.
#:''Yes, I'd like '''another''' slice of cake, thanks.''
# Not the [[same]]; [[different]].
#:''Do you know '''another''' way to do this job?''
# [[Any]] or [[some]]; any [[different]] [[person]], [[indefinitely]]; [[anyone]] [[else]]; [[someone]] else.
#:''He has never known '''another''' like her.''

Note: As a pronoun another may have a possessive another's, pl. others, poss. pl. other'. It is much used in opposition to one; as, one went one way, another another. It is also used with one, in a reciprocal sense; as, "love [[one another]]," that is, let each love the other or others. ''These two imparadised in one another's arms.''&mdash;Milton.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[toinen]]
*Icelandic: [[annar]]
*Polish: [[inny]] (1,2) , [[kolejny]] (1), [[następny]] (1)

===Related terms===
*[[other]]
*[[A N Other]], [[A.N. Other]]

===Translations===
*'''Hebrew''': [[אחר]]
*'''Persian''': [[دیگَر]] (digær)
*'''Romanian''': [[altul]] {{m}}, [[alta]] {{f}}
*'''Russian''': [[другой]]
*'''Danish''': [[altid]]
[[Category:200 English basic words]]
{{webster}}

[[gl:another]]
[[io:another]]
[[it:another]]
[[hu:another]]
[[pt:another]]
[[ru:another]]
[[simple:another]]
[[fi:another]]
[[ta:another]]
[[uk:another]]
[[zh:another]]