==English==

===Etymology===
A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. ''anti'', Skr. anti, Goth. and-, anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. [[Answer]], [[Along]], G. ant-, ent- (in comp.).

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈænt.i/
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ænti|-ænti]]

===Homonyms===
* [[Auntie]]

===Prefix===
{{rfc-split}}
'''ante-'''

# The Latin [[ante]] is generally used in the sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and the Gr. [[anti]] in that of opposite, or in the place of.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# In [[poker]] and other games, the contribution made by all players to the [[pot]] before dealing the cards.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To [[pay]] the ante in [[poker]].  Often used ''ante up''.
# To make an investment in money, effort, or time before knowing one's chances.

===References===
*{{R:1913}}

----

==Ido==
[[Category:Ido language]]
===Preposition===
# before.

----

==Latin==
===Preposition===
'''ante''' + ''accusative''
#[[before]]


----

==Spanish==
===Etymology===
From Latin ''[[#Latin|ante]]''.
===Preposition===
'''ante'''
# [[in front of]], [[before]]
#: ''Tengo que aparecer '''ante''' el juez.'' &mdash; "I have to appear before the judge."
[[Category:Spanish prepositions]]

===Etymology===
From ''[[dante]]''
===Noun===
{{es-noun-m}}
#[[suede]]

----

==Swedish==
===Noun===
'''ante'''

#(''colloquial'') ''past tense'' of [[ana]]

====See also====
*[[anade]]
*[[det ante mig]]

[[Category:Latin prepositions]]

[[fr:ante]]
[[gl:ante]]
[[ko:ante]]
[[io:ante]]
[[ie:ante]]
[[it:ante]]
[[la:ante]]
[[hu:ante]]
[[nl:ante]]
[[no:ante]]
[[pl:ante]]
[[pt:ante]]
[[ru:ante]]
[[fi:ante]]
[[vi:ante]]