==English==
===Etymology===
Latin ''[[anticipatus]]'', perfect passive participle of ''[[anticipare]]'', '''anticipate'''; from ''[[ante]]'', '''before''', + ''[[capere]]'', '''take'''.  See  [[Capable]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ænˈtɪs.ə.peyt/

===Transitive Verb===
# To be before in doing; to do or take before another; to preclude or prevent by prior action.
#:    To anticipate and prevent the duke's purpose. --R. Hall.
#:    He would probably have died by the hand of the executioner, if indeed the executioner had not been anticipated by the populace. --Macaulay.
# To take up or introduce beforehand, or before the proper or normal time; to cause to occur earlier or prematurely; as, the advocate has anticipated a part of his argument.
# To foresee (a wish, command, etc.) and do beforehand that which will be desired.
# To foretaste or foresee; to have a previous view or impression of; as, to anticipate the pleasures of a visit; to anticipate the evils of life.

Usage: To [[Anticipate]], [[Expect]]. These words agree in regarding some future event as likely to take place. Nowadays they are often used interchangably although anticipate is associated with acting because of an expecation.(e.g. skilled sportsmen anticipate the action and position themselves accordingly)
====Synonym====
* [[expect]].

<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

You say thet anticipate and expect are used interchangeably. Surely anticipate is used when expect is meant, but not the other way round. Nobody uses expect to mean "take action in the expectation of."

===Related Terms===
*[[anticipation]]

===Tranlations===
*Finnish: [[odottaa]]
*[[Ido]]: [[anticipar]]

[[et:Anticipate]]
[[gl:Anticipate]]
[[io:Anticipate]]
[[it:anticipate]]