==English==
===Etymology===
Latin [[anxius]], from [[angere]] to cause pain, choke; akin to Gr. 'a`gchein to choke.  See [[Anger]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˈæŋˈʃəs/
*{{audio|en-us-anxious.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
# Full of [[anxiety]] or disquietude; greatly concerned or solicitous, esp. respecting something future or unknown; being in painful suspense;&mdash;applied to persons; as, anxious for the issue of a battle.
# Accompanied with, or causing, anxiety; worrying;&mdash;applied to things; as, anxious labor.
#:    The sweet of life, from which God hath bid dwell far off all anxious cares. --Milton.
# Earnestly [[desirous]]; as, anxious to please.
#:    He sneers alike at those who are anxious to preserve and at those who are eager for reform. --Macaulay.
#:    Note: Anxious is followed by for, about, concerning, etc., before the object of solicitude.

====Translations====
;full of anxiety
{{top}}
*Old English: [[cearig|ċeariġ]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[ansioso]] ''m'' [[ansiosa]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[orolig]]
{{bottom}} 

;accompanied with anxiety
{{top}}
*Old English: [[cearig|ċeariġ]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[ansioso]] ''m'' [[ansiosa]] ''f''
*Swedish: [[oroväckande]]
{{bottom}}

;earnestly desirous

=====Translations to be checked=====
*Finnish: [[levoton]], [[huolestunut]], [[innokas]]
====Synonyms====
*[[careful]]
*[[concerned]]
*[[disturbed]]
*[[restless]]
*[[solicitous]]
*[[uneasy]]
*[[unquiet]]
*[[watchful]]

<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

[[fr:anxious]]
[[gl:anxious]]
[[io:anxious]]
[[it:anxious]]
[[hu:anxious]]
[[fi:anxious]]
[[ta:anxious]]
[[vi:anxious]]