{{wikipedia}}
==English ''(New Zealand)''==

===Etymology===
From [[Maori]]. Literal translation: "Long White Cloud" (''ao'' = cloud/daytime/world ''tea'' = white, ''roa'' = long/tall). Often translated as "The land of the long white cloud". Probably a reference to the appearance of mountanous land when seen on the horizon from a canoe after an ocean voyage. Allegedly the first English language mention was in the February 1916 New Zealand School Journal (King, 2004).

===Pronuncuation===
{{audio|en-nz-aotearoa.ogg|Audio Pronunciation}}<br>
[[w:International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA]]: /&#44;&#97;&#650;&#601;&#116;&#101;&#618;&#39;&#114;&#111;&#650;&#601;/, /&#39;&#97;&#596;&#116;&#101;&#97;&#39;&#114;&#596;&#97;/<br>
[[w:X-SAMPA|X-SAMPA]]: /%aU@teI"roU@/, /"aOtea"rOa/ <br>

===Proper Noun===
'''Aotearoa'''
#The country of [[New Zealand]].
#Land of the long white cloud (usual translation from Maori).
#Long white cloud ''(literal translation from Maori)''.
#The North Island of New Zealand ''(obsolete)''.

====Quotation====
"Aotearoa / rugged individual / glistens like a pearl at the bottom of the world" (Split Enz, ''Six Months in a Leaky Boat'', 1981)

====Synonyms====
*[[New Zealand]]
*[[Aotearoa New Zealand]]

===Adjective===
'''Aotearoan''' (or '''Aotearoaian''' or '''Aoteroan''')
#The Proper Noun used as a modifier ''(extremely rare)''.

====Quotation====
"If all New Zealanders were brought up understanding Maori... then, we would all be New Zealanders&mdash;or should that read Aotearoans?" (New Zealand Listener, 1993)

===References===
*''The Dictionary of New Zeland English: A Dictionary of New Zealandisms on Historical Principles'' (1997). H.W. Orsman (editor). Auckland: Oxford University Press.
*''The New Zealand Oxford Dictionary'' (2005). T. Deverson & G. Kennedy (editors). Victora: Oxford University Press.
*King, M. (2004). ''The Penguin History of New Zealand''. Auckland: Penguin Books.