{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Pronunciation===
a-part-hate.
{{rfap}}
{{rfp}}

===Etymology===
An Afrikaans word meaning, literally, "separateness".

===Noun===
{{en-noun-unc}}

# The policy of racial [[separation]] used in South Africa 1948-1990.
#:'''1917''', General Jan Smuts: Speech at the Savoy Hotel.
#:The superior civilizing race was lost in the quicksands of African blood,.. and it has become axiomatic that it is a dishonourable thing that there shall be any mixture of white and black blood….We have felt that if we are to solve our native question, it is useless to subject (black and white) to the same machinery of legislation. We have found that the ideas which apply to our white civilization do not apply to the natives and to give a political existence on an equal basis does not lead to the best results….The practice is being built up in South Africa of creating parallel institutions and of making the natives run on different but parallel lines to the whites….White and black are different not only in colour, but almost in soul…Instead of mixing up black and white all over the country, we are now trying to keep them as far apart as possible in government, (and) the forms of political government will be such that each will be satisfied and each will develop according to its own proper rights. Economically the native will go on working in the white areas. 
:During the evening, songs were given by Miss Ada Forrest and Mr. Edward Halland.

# Policies analogous to the apartheid of South Africa.

{{rft}}

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[rotuerottelu]], apartheid
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Dutch derivations]]
[[Category:South African English]]
[[Category:Afrikaans derivations]]

[[cs:apartheid]]
[[fr:apartheid]]
[[it:apartheid]]
[[pl:apartheid]]
[[fi:apartheid]]