==English==
===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpi.əl/

===Transitive Verb===
# (Law) To [[apply]] for the [[removal]] of a [[cause]] from an [[inferior]]  to a [[superior]] [[judge]] or [[court]] for the [[purpose]] of [[reexamination]] of for [[decision]]. --Tomlins.
#:    I appeal unto Cæsar. --Acts xxv. 11.
# To call upon another to decide a [[question]] [[controverted]], to [[corroborate]] a [[statement]], to [[vindicate]] one's rights, etc.; as, I appeal to all [[mankind]] for the [[truth]] of what is [[allege]]d. Hence: To call on one for aid; to make earnest request.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

===Intransitive Verb===
# To be [[attractive]]; ''that idea appeals to me'' means I find the idea attractive.
# {{Cricket}} To [[ask]] an [[umpire]] for a [[decision]] of [[whether]] a [[batsman]] is [[out]] or not

===Noun===
# (Law) (a) An application for the removal of a cause or suit from  an inferior to a superior judge or court for  reëxamination or review. (b) The mode of proceeding by which such removal is effected. (c) The right of appeal. (d) An accusation; a process which formerly might be instituted by one private person against another for  some heinous crime demanding punishment for the  particular injury suffered, rather than for the  offense against the public. (e) An accusation of a felon at common law by one of his  accomplices, which accomplice was then called an approver. See {Approvement}. --Tomlins. --Bouvier.
# A [[summons]] to answer to a charge. --Dryden.
# A call upon a person or an [[authority]] for proof or decision, in one's favor; reference to another as witness; a call for help or a favor; entreaty.
#:    A kind of appeal to the [[Deity]], the author of wonders. --Bacon.
# Resort to physical means; [[recourse]].
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->
# In cricket, the act, by the [[fielding]] [[side]], of asking an umpire for a decision of whether a batsman is out or not.