==English==

{{rank|simple|fresh|noble|712|appearance|period|William|remain}}

===Etymology===
French [[apparence]], Latin [[apparentia]], from [[apparere]].  See [[Appear]].

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|[[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɪɹ.əns/}}, ([[RP]]) /ˈəpɪəɹəns/

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# The act of appearing or coming into sight; the act of becoming visible to the eye; as, his sudden appearance  surprised me.
# A thing seen; a phenomenon; a phase; an apparition; as, an appearance in the sky.
# Personal presence; exhibition of the person; look; aspect; mien.
#:    And now am come to see . . . It thy appearance answer loud report. --Milton.
# Semblance, or apparent likeness; external show. pl. Outward signs, or circumstances, fitted to make a particular impression or to determine the judgment as to the character of a person or a thing, an act or a state; as, appearances are against him.
#:    There was upon the tabernacle, as it were, the appearance of fire. --Num. ix. 15.
#:    For man looketh on the outward appearance. --1 Sam. xvi. 7.
#:    Judge not according to the appearance. --John. vii. 24.
# The act of appearing in a particular place, or in society, a company, or any proceedings; a coming before the public in a particular character; as, a person makes his appearance as an historian, an artist, or an orator.
#:    Will he now retire, After appearance, and again prolong Our expectation? --Milton.
# {{law}} The coming into court of either of the parties; the being present in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in an action, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formal entry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding by which a party proceeded against places himself before the court, and submits to its jurisdiction. --Burrill. --Bouvier. --Daniell.

===Synonyms===
*[[air]]
*[[arrival]]
*[[aspect]]
*[[coming]]
*[[figure]]
*[[look]]
*[[manner]]
*[[mien]]
*[[presence]]
*[[pretense]]
*[[semblance]]

===Related terms===
* '''To put in an appearance''' = to be present; to appear in person.
* '''To save appearances''' = to preserve a fair outward show.

===Translations===
;The act of appearing or coming into sight (1)
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[aparició]]
*Finnish: [[ilmestyminen]], [[ilmaantuminen]]
*German: [[Erscheinen]] {{n}}, [[Auftritt]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[aparição]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[aparición]]
*Swedish: [[uppträdande]], [[framträdande]]
{{bottom}}

;A thing seed (2)
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[aparició]]
*Portuguese: [[aparição]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Spanish: [[aparición]]
{{bottom}}

;Personal presence (3)
{{top}}
*Catalan: [[aparença]]
*Finnish: [[ulkomuoto]], [[ulkonäkö]], [[ulkoasu]], [[olemus]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[aparência]] {{f}}
*Spanish: [[apariencia]]
*Swedish: [[uppträdande]], [[framträdande]]
{{bottom}}

;Semblance, or apparent likeness (4)
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[aparência]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;The act of appearing in a particular place, or in society, a company, or any proceedings (5)
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[apareceimento]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[uppträdande]], [[framträdande]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;The coming into court of either of the parties (6)
{{top}}
*Portuguese: [[comparecimento]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

{{webster}}

[[ar:appearance]]
[[fr:appearance]]
[[gl:appearance]]
[[io:appearance]]
[[it:appearance]]
[[hu:appearance]]
[[ru:appearance]]
[[fi:appearance]]
[[ta:appearance]]
[[vi:appearance]]