==English==
===Etymology===
:from {{OF.}} ''application'', from {{L.}} ''applicationem'' (noun ''[[applicatio]]'') from verb ''[[applicare]]'' ([[apply]])

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ˌæp.ləˈke.ʃən/
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪʃǝn|-eɪʃǝn]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# The act of [[applying]] or laying on, in a literal sense; as, the application of emollients to a diseased limb.
# The thing applied.
#:    He invented a new application by which blood might be stanched. --Johnson.
# The act of applying as a means; the employment of means to accomplish an end; specific use.
#:    If a right course . . . be taken with children, there will not be much need of the application of the common rewards and punishments. --Locke.
# The act of directing or referring something to a particular case, to discover or illustrate agreement or disagreement, fitness, or correspondence; as, I make the remark, and leave you to make the application; the application of a theory.   <!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->
# A computer program; the set of software that the end-user perceives as a single entity as a tool for a well-defined purpose.

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[sovellutus]], [[sovellus]]
*French: [[application#French|application]]
*[[Hebrew]]: [[יישום]]
*Hungarian: [[alkalmazás]]
*Norwegian: [[søknad]]

==French==

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|a.pli.ka.sjɔ̃}}
*{{SAMPA|a.pli.ka.sjO~}}

===Noun===
'''application'''
#[[application#English|application]]

[[Category:French nouns]]

[[ar:application]]
[[de:application]]
[[et:application]]
[[el:application]]
[[fr:application]]
[[gl:application]]
[[ko:application]]
[[io:application]]
[[id:application]]
[[it:application]]
[[hu:application]]
[[pl:application]]
[[ru:application]]
[[fi:application]]
[[sv:application]]
[[ta:application]]
[[vi:application]]
[[zh:application]]