==English==

===Etymology===
Old English [[appointen]], [[apointen]], Old French [[apointier]] to prepare, arrange, lean, place, French [[appointer]] to give a salary, refer a cause, from LL. appunctare  to bring back to the point, restore, to fix the point in a controversy, or the points in an agreement; Latin ad + [[punctum]] a point.  See [[Point]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɔɪnt/

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}}: To fix with power or firmness; to establish; to mark out.
#:''When he '''appointed''' the foundations of the earth.''  --Prov. viii. 29.
# {{transitive}}: To fix by a decree, order, command, resolve, decision, or mutual agreement; to constitute; to ordain; to prescribe; to fix the time and place of.
#:''Thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall '''appoint'''.''  --2 Sam. xv. 15.
#:''He hath '''appointed''' a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness.''  --Acts xvii. 31.
#:''Say that the emperor request a parley ... and '''appoint''' the meeting.''  --Shak.
# {{transitive}}: To assign, designate, or set apart by authority.
#:''Aaron and his shall go in, and '''appoint''' them every one to his service.''  --Num. iv. 19.
#:''These were cities '''appointed''' for all the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them.''  --Josh. xx. 9.
# {{transitive}}: To furnish in all points; to provide with everything necessary by way of equipment; to equip; to fit out.
#:''The English, being well '''appointed''', did so entertain them that their ships departed terribly torn.''  --Hayward.
# {{transitive}}, ''(Law):'' To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a new disposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance;&mdash;said of an estate already conveyed. --Burrill. Kent.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

[[fr:appoint]]
[[gl:appoint]]
[[io:appoint]]
[[it:appoint]]
[[fi:appoint]]
[[vi:appoint]]
[[zh:appoint]]