==English==
===Etymology===
Compare with French [[appointement]].

===Pronunciation===
IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɔɪnt.mɛnt/

===Noun===
# The act of [[appointing]]; designation of a person to hold an office or discharge a trust; as, he erred by the  appointment of unsuitable men.
# The state of being appointed to som? service or office; an office to which one is appointed; station; position; an, the appointment of treasurer.
# Stipulation; agreement; the act of fixing by mutual agreement. Hence:: Arrangement for a meeting; engagement; as, they made an appointment to meet at six.
# Decree; direction; established order or constitution; as, to submit to the divine appointments.
#:    According to the appointment of the priests. --Ezra vi. 9.
# (Law) The exercise of the power of designating (under a ``power of appointment'') a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property; also, the instrument by which the designation is made.
# Equipment, furniture, as for a ship or an army; whatever is appointed for use and management; outfit; (pl.) the accouterments of military officers or soldiers, as belts, sashes, swords.
#:    The cavaliers emulated their chief in the richness of their appointments. --Prescott.
#:    I'll prove it in my shackles, with these hands Void of appointment, that thou liest. --Beau. & Fl.
# A honorary part or exercise, as an oration, etc., at a public exhibition of a college; as, to have an appointment. [U.S.]

====Synonyms====
[[Designation]]; [[command]]; [[order]]; [[direction]]; [[establishment]]; [[equipment]].

<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->