==English==
===Pronunciation===
* [[IPA]]: /ʌˈpɹisieɪt/
* [[WEAE]]: /ʌˈpɹi.ʃi.eɪt/

===Etymology===
Latin [[appretiatus]], [[p.p.]] of [[appretiare]] to value at a price, appraise; ad + [[pretiare]] to prize, pretium price. Compare with [[Appraise]].

===Transitive Verb===
'''to appreciate''' ([[appreciates]], [[appreciated]], [[appreciating]])

# To set a price or value on; to estimate justly; to value.
#:    To appreciate the motives of their enemies. --Gibbon.
# (U.S.) To raise the value of; to increase the market price of;&mdash;opposed to [[depreciate]].
#:    Lest a sudden peace should appreciate the money. --Ramsay.
# To be sensible of; to distinguish.
#:    To test the power of bees to appreciate color. --Lubbock.
# To view as valuable.
#: I appreciate your help.

==== Translations ====
*[[Slovak]]: [[oceniť]] (1), [[ceniť si]] (4), [[vážiť si]] (4)

====Synonyms====
*[[esteem]]
*[[estimate]]

====Related terms====
*[[appreciation]]
*[[appreciative]]

====Usage Notes====
:[[Estimate]] is an act of judgment; [[esteem]] is an act of valuing or prizing, and when applied to individuals, denotes a sentiment of moral approbation. See [[Estimate]]. [[Appreciate]] lies between the two. As compared with estimate, it supposes a union of sensibility with judgment, producing a nice and  delicate perception. As compared with esteem, it denotes a valuation of things according to their  appropriate and distinctive excellence, and not simply  their moral worth. Thus, with reference to the former  of these (delicate perception), an able writer says. ''Women have a truer appreciation of character than  men;'' and another remarks, ''It is difficult to appreciate the true force and distinctive sense of terms which we are every day using.'' So, also, we speak of the difference between two things, as sometimes hardly appreciable. With reference to the  latter of these (that of valuation as the result of a nice perception), we say, ''It requires a peculiar  cast of character to appreciate the poetry of Wordsworth;'' ''He who has no delicacy himself, can  not appreciate it in others;'' ''The thought of death  is salutary, because it leads us to appreciate worldly  things aright.'' Appreciate is much used in cases  where something is in danger of being overlooked or undervalued; as when we speak of appreciating the  difficulties of a subject, or the risk of an undertaking. So Lord Plunket, referring to an ''ominous silence'' which prevailed among the Irish  peasantry, says, ''If you knew how to appreciate that  silence, it is more formidable than the most clamorous  opposition.'' In like manner, a person who asks some  favor of another is apt to say, ''I trust you will  appreciate my motives in this request.'' Here we have  the key to a very frequent use of the word. It is hardly necessary to say that appreciate looks on the  favorable side of things. we never speak of appreciating a man's faults, but his merits. This idea  of regarding things favorably appears more fully in the word appreciative; as when we speak of an appreciative audience, or an appreciative review, meaning one that manifests a quick perception and a ready valuation of excellence.<BR>(''material dates from 1913''')


<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->