==English==

===Etymology===
{{L.}} ''[[appropriatus]]'', past participle of ''[[appropriare]]'', from ''[[ad#Latin|ad]]'' + ''[[propriare]]'' to appropriate, from ''[[proprius]]'', one's own, proper.

===Pronunciation===
*Verb:
**[[AHD]]: əprō'priāt
**[[IPA]]: /əˈprəʊpreɪt/ (''[[RP]]''), /əˈproʊpreɪt/ (''US'')
**[[SAMPA]]: /<tt>@"pr@UprieIt</tt>/ (''RP''), /<tt>@"proUpreIt</tt>/ (''US'')
**{{audio|en-us-appropriate-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Adjective:
**AHD: əprō'priĭt ''or'' əprō'priət
**IPA: /əˈprəʊpriɪt/ ''or'' /əˈprəʊpriət/ (''RP''), /əˈproʊpriɪt/ ''or'' /əˈproʊpriət/ (''US'')
**SAMPA: /<tt>@"pr@UpriIt</tt>/ ''or'' /<tt>@"pr@Upri@t</tt>/ (''RP''), /<tt>@"proUpriIt</tt>/ ''or'' /<tt>@"proUpri@t</tt>/ (''US'')
**{{audio|en-us-appropriate-adj.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj-more}}

# {{obsolete}} Set apart for a particular use or person. 
# Hence: Belonging  peculiarly; [[peculiar]]; [[suitable]]; [[fit]]; [[proper]].
#:''The headmaster wondered what an '''appropritate''' measure would be to make the pupil behave better.''
# In its strict and appropriate meaning. --Porteus.
#:'''''Appropriate''' acts of divine worship.''  --Stillingfleet.
#:''It is not at all times easy to find words '''appropriate''' to express our ideas.''  --Locke.

====Synonyms====
*[[apt]]
*[[felicitous]]
*[[fitting]]

====Translations====
'''Set apart for a particular use or person'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[aangewezen]], [[geschikt]], [[geschikte]]
*Finnish: [[sopiva]], [[sovelias]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[zugewiesen]]
{{bottom}}

'''Hence: Belonging peculiarly'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[geschikt]], [[geschikte]], [[passend]], [[passende]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[angebracht]], [[angemessen]], [[passend]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|appropriat|ing}}

# {{transitive}} To take to one's self in exclusion of others; to claim or use as by an exclusive right; as in: "let no man appropriate  the use of a common benefit."
#{{transitive}} To set apart for, or assign to, a particular person or use, in exclusion of all others;&mdash;with to or for; as, a spot of ground is appropriated for a garden; to appropriate money for the increase of the navy.
# {{transitive}} To make suitable; to suit. [Archaic] --Paley.
# {{transitive}} (Eng. Eccl. Law) To annex, as a benefice, to a spiritual corporation, as its property. --Blackstone.

====Translations====
'''To take to one's self in exclusion of others'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: zich [[toeëigenen]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[aneignen]]
{{bottom}}

''To set apart for'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[toewijzen]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[zuweisen]]
{{bottom}}

'''To make suitable'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[aanpassen]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[anpassen]]
{{bottom}}

'''Law: To annex'''
{{top}}
*German: [[aneignen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[fr:appropriate]]
[[gl:appropriate]]
[[io:appropriate]]
[[it:appropriate]]
[[hu:appropriate]]
[[pl:appropriate]]
[[pt:appropriate]]
[[vi:appropriate]]
[[zh:appropriate]]