==English==

===Etymology===
Latin [[approximatus]], [[p.p.]] of [[approximare]] to approach; ad + [[proximare]] to come near.  See  [[Proximate]].

===Pronunciation===
; adjective : IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɹɑks.ə.mɪt/
*{{audio|en-us-approximate-adj.ogg|Audio (US)}}
; verb : IPA: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɹɑks.ə.maɪt/
*{{audio|en-us-approximate-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Adjective===
'''approximate'''
# Approaching; proximate; nearly resembling.
# Near correctness; nearly exact; not perfectly accurate; as, approximate results or values.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Related terms====
*[[approximately]]

====Quotations====
<blockquote>
To help carry out its mission, NASA's Genesis spacecraft has on board
an ion monitor to record the speed, density, temperature and approximate 
composition of the solar wind ions.
</blockquote>

====Translations====
'''Approaching; proximate; nearly resembling'''
{{top}}
<!--languages from A to K go here-->
*Finnish: [[arvio]], [[likiarvo]]
*{{de}}: [[annähernd]], [[ungefähr]], [[zirka]], [[circa]]
{{mid}}
<!--languages from L to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

'''Near correctness; nearly exact; not perfectly accurate;'''
{{top}}
<!--languages from A to K go here-->
*Finnish: [[arvio]], [[likiarvo]]
*{{de}}: [[annähernd]], [[ungefähr]], [[zirka]], [[circa]]
{{mid}}
<!--languages from L to Z go here-->
{{bottom}}

===Transitive Verb===
'''approximate'''  ([[approximates]], [[approximated]], [[approximating]])
# To carry or advance near; to cause to approach.
#:    To approximate the inequality of riches to the level of nature. --Burke.
# To come near to; to approach.
#:    The telescope approximates perfection. --J. Morse.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Quotations====
<blockquote>
When you follow two deparate chains of thought, Watson, you will find some point of
intersection which should approximate to the truth.<BR>&mdash;
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in ''The Disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax''
</blockquote>

====Translations====
'''to carry or advance near; to cause to approach'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to K go here-->
*{{de}}: [[annähern]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from L to Z go here-->
|}
|}
'''To come near to; to approach'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from A to K go here-->
*{{de}}: [[annähern]], [[annähernd erreichen]]
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
<!--languages from L to Z go here-->
|}
|}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[gl:Approximate]]
[[io:Approximate]]
[[pl:approximate]]