==English==
===Etymology===
Old English [[approchen]], [[aprochen]], Old French [[approcher]], LL. [[appropriare]], from Latin ad + [[propiare]] to draw  near, prope near.

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/əˈprəʊtʃ/}} (''UK'')<!--this needs attention: it is not correct: [[WEAE]] /ʌˈpɹotʃ/-->
* {{SAMPA|/@"pr@UtS/}} (''UK'')

===Intransitive verb===
{{en-verb|approach|es}}

# To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance nearer.
#:    Wherefore approached ye so nigh unto the city? --2 Sam. xi. 20.
#:    But exhorting one another; and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching. --Heb. x. 25.
# To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest statesman.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Deutsch: [[nähern]]
*Dutch: [[benaderen]]
*Finnish: [[lähestyä]] (1)
*Polish: [[zbliżać się]], [[podchodzić]], [[nadciągać]], [[zmierzać]], [[nadchodzić]], [[przybliżać się]]
*Spanish: [[acercarse]] (1)

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|approach|es}}

# To come near to in place, time, or character; to draw nearer to; as, to approach the city; to approach my cabin; he approached the age of manhood.
#:    He was an admirable poet, and thought even to have approached Homer. --Temple.
# (Mil.) To take approaches to.
<!-- material copied from Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) -->

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Finnish: [[lähestyä]] (1)
*Russian: [[подойти]] (to walk closer), [[приблизиться]] (to get gloser), [[применить]] (to apply solution to a problem)

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg-es}}

# The act of drawing near; a coming or advancing near. 
#:''The  approach of summer.'' --Horsley.
#:A nearer approach to the human type. --Owen.
# A access, or opportunity of drawing near.
#:The approach to kings and principal persons. --Bacon.
# (used only with the plural '''approaches''') Movements to gain favor; advances.
# A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be approached; an access. --Macaulay.
# A manner in which a problem is solved or policy is made.
#:''an approach to gardening''
# (used only with the plural '''approaches''' (Fortification) The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post.
# (Hort.) See {Approaching}. 
# (Golf) A stroke whose object is to land the ball on the putting  green. It is made with an [[iron]] club.
# The way a [[plane]] lands on a airport.

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
*Finnish: [[lähestyminen]] (1, 2)
*Polish: [[nadejście]] ''n'' (1), [[podejście]] ''n'' (1, 5), [[zbliżenie]] ''n'' (1), [[dojazd]] ''m'' (4), [[podjazd]] ''m'' (4)
*Spanish: [[acercamiento]]

{{webster}}

[[ar:approach]]
[[fr:approach]]
[[gl:approach]]
[[io:approach]]
[[it:approach]]
[[la:approach]]
[[hu:approach]]
[[fi:approach]]
[[vi:approach]]
[[zh:approach]]