==English==
===Pronunciation===
* US, with Grecian stress: /ˌæp.rəsˈdɑ.kɪˌtɑn/
* US, with Latinate stress: /əˌprɑs.dəˈkiˌtɑn/

===Alternative spellings===
* '''[[aprosdoceton]]'''

===Etymology===
Ancient Greek '''[[ἀπροσδόκητος]]''' ''(aprosdokētos,'' [[unexpected]]).

===Noun===
'''aprosdoketon''' (Anglicized plural: '''[[aprosdoketons]]'''; classical plural: '''[[aprosdoketa]]''')
# A figure of speech where an expected word in an [[idiom]] is replaced unexpectedly by an unusual one, such as ''Rome wasn't built in a teacup;'' also, any surprising use or interpretation of language.

===Translations===
{{top}}
* German: [[Aprosdoketon]] {{n}}
{{mid}}

{{bottom}}

===Quotations===
* '''1997,''' T. Tarkow, ‘Theognis 237–254: A Reexamination,’ in ''Quaderni urbinati di cultura classica'' 26, quoted in ''Roman Constructions,'' Don Fowler, 2000. [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0198153090&id=cVR01SLMLC0C&pg=PA12&lpg=PA12&dq=aprosdoketon&sig=az-o0Q6Pqsvfq64OEtILKFU9_VM]
*: Is the poet saying “I do not chance on even a slight respect from you” or “I chance on a good amount of respect from you,” a meaning which effectively postpones the '''''aprosdoketon''''' to the final line[.]
* '''2000,''' Gonda A. H. Van Steen, ''Venom in Verse'' [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN0691009562&id=c50SSCS1kskC&pg=RA3-PA203&lpg=RA3-PA203&dq=aprosdoketon&sig=ZrivMd_D63VIVznpdQxxd-3IqVU]
*: In later restagings of the ''Thesmophoriazusae,'' as in the 1959 ''Frogs,'' Euripides made his appearance driving a motorcycle.  This scenic '''''aprosdoketon''''' was, of course, an ingenous verbal and visual pun on the word ''[[μηχανή|mechane]]'' and its different meanings in ancient and modern Greek: “stage crane” and “motorbike,” respectively.
* '''2001,''' H. S. Versnel, “The Poetics of the Magical Charm,” in ''Magic and Ritual in the Ancient World,'' P. Mirecki & M. Meyer edd. [http://books.google.com/books?vid=ISBN9004116761&id=xMDHgzjSU_MC&pg=PA154&lpg=PA154&dq=aprosdoketon&sig=BzWBF4yiufTH1AXHIJ-I2xKVTVI]
*: His famous dictum ''Ceterum censeo Carthaginem delendam esse'' is an instance of pure rhetoric, deriving its power from its reiteration as a peroration attached to any speech he gave.  Now, precisely this fact, the '''''aprosdoketon''''' effect, lends it a certain circumstantial magical quality as well. Being pronounced after every speech on whatever topic, it more often than not was completely ot of (logical) order, which is at least one of the characteristics of certain components of the magical charm.