Architecture is the practice of designing any buildings or structures. Typically associated with [[architects]], professional designers, architects are the design professionals used in almost every aspect of building design. Combining [[art]] with [[structural mechanics]], the architect's skills include drawing out plans and ideas and rendering them to be built.

The practice of architecture can be traced to its origins to every human civilization, architecture is the art of building. ancient architects were responsible for the earliest forms of housing and shrines. Throughout various stages in development of civilizations, architects played a key role in the building of politcal and religious buildings and bearing the responsility of overseeing the various stages of completion. The profession evolved into an art form that proliferated as a culture prospered. 

The current practice of Architecture can be broken down into Three general forms of expression: Classical architecture is based on Greek and Roman design methods that can be traced even further to Egyptian and Byzantine models. The use of columns consisting of the Classical Orders, highly detailed sculpture as an element of the building, and symmetrical floor plans are the major elements of Classical Architecture. Classical architecture is seen in most government buildings, schools, and libraries. [[Neo-Classicism]], [[Mannerism]], and [[High Classicism]] are variations on the Classical approach to design. Modern architecture is the other major design approach. Modern design encompasses the entire spectrum of available building techniques and styles and is generally the tool of contemporary and modernist architects. Classical elements such as architraves and columns can also be associated with Modernism, but are not wholly appropriated from the standards set by Classicists.