==English==
{{Wikipedia}}
===Alternative forms===
:'''arg.''' or '''a.''' in [[heraldic]] contexts.
===Etymology===
From {{L.}} ''[[argentum]]'' "white money", "silver", via {{F.}} ''argent''.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/ˈaːdʒent/}}
*{{IPA|/ˈɑɹdʒent/}}

===Noun===
'''argent'''
# the metal [[silver]].
# (''heraldry'') the white or silver [[tincture]] on a [[coat of arms]].
#:<table><tr><td>argent colour: &nbsp;</td><td bgcolor="#848482" width="80">&nbsp; </td></tr></table>
#:* '''1909''': The metals are gold and silver, these being termed "or" and "'''argent'''". &mdash; Arthur Charles Fox-Davies, ''A Complete Guide to Heraldry''

====Translations====
'''silver''' or '''metal tincture'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[hopea]]
*German: [[Silber]]
{{mid}}
*Romanian: [[argint]]
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''argent'''
# of [[silver]] or silver-coloured.
#(''blazon'') of white or silver [[tincture]] on a coat of arms.
#:* '''1889''': ...when the shield is '''argent''', it is shown in an engraving by being left plain. &mdash; Charles Norton Elvin, ''A Dictionary of Heraldry''

====Synonyms====
* [[blanc]], [[silver]]

====Translations====
'''of silver'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[hopeinen]]
{{bottom}}

'''of white or silver colour on a coat of arms'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[srebrna#Bosnian|srebrna]] {{f}}
*Croatian: [[srebrna#Croatian|srebrna]] {{f}}
*Dutch: [[zilver]]
*Finnish: [[hopeinen]], [[hopeanvärinen]]
*French: [[argent]]
*German: [[silbern]]
*Hungarian: [[ezüst]]
*Italian: [[argento]]
*Polish: [[srebrny]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[branco]]
*Romanian: [[argintiu]]
*Russian: [[серебристый]]
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[сребрна#Serbian|сребрна]] {{f}}
*:Latin: [[srebrna#Serbian|srebrna]] {{f}}
*Slovak: [[strieborná]]
*Spanish: [[plata]] ([[blanco]])
*Swedish: [[silver]]
*Welsh [[gwynn]]
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[argentic]]
*[[argentiferous]]
*[[argentine]]
*[[argentite]]
*[[argentum nitricum]]

===Related terms===
*[[Ag]] (chemical symbol for silver)

===See also===
*[[Wiktionary_Appendix:Colours|Appendix:Colours]]

===Quotations===
*'''1667''': Those '''argent''' Fields more likely habitants, / Translated Saints, or middle Spirits hold / Betwixt th' Angelical and Human kinde &mdash; John Milton, ''Paradise Lost''
*'''1733''': Or ask of yonder '''argent''' fields above, / Why Jove's Satellites are less than Jove? &mdash; Alexander Pope, ''Essay on Man''
*'''1817''': she did soar / So passionately bright, my dazzled soul / Commingling with her '''argent''' spheres did roll / Through clear and cloudy &mdash; John Keats, ''Endymion''
*'''1817''': Pardon me, airy planet, that I prize / One thought beyond thine '''argent''' luxuries! &mdash; John Keats, ''Endymion''
*'''1818''': Two wings this orb / Possess'd for glory, two fair '''argent''' wings &mdash; John Keats, ''Hyperion''
*'''1819''': At length burst in the '''argent''' revelry, / With plume, tiara, and all rich array, / Numerous as shadows haunting fairily / The brain &mdash; John Keats, ''The Eve of St Agnes''
*'''1891''':"A castle '''argent''' is certainly my crest," said he blandly. &mdash; Thomas Hardy, ''Tess of the d'Urbervilles''
*'''1922''': Like John o'Gaunt his name is dear to him, as dear as the coat and crest he toadied for, on a bend sable a spear or steeled '''argent''', honorificabilitudinitatibus, dearer than his glory of greatest shakescene in the country. &mdash; James Joyce, ''Ulysses''
*'''1922''': Keep our flag flying! An eagle gules volant in a field '''argent''' displayed. &mdash; James Joyce, ''Ulysses''
*'''1967''': '''Argent''' I craft you as the star / Of flower-shut evening &mdash; John Berryman, ''Berryman's Sonnets''

[[Category:Colors]]
[[Category:Greys]]
[[Category:Heraldic tincture]]
[[Category:French elements]]

----

==French==
===Noun===
'''argent''' ''m''

#[[money]]
#[[silver]]
# argent (''white ind heraldry'')

===Related terms===
*[[argenté]]
*[[argenter]]
*[[argenterie]]
*[[argentier]]
*[[argentifère]]
*[[argentin]]
*[[Argentine]]
*[[argenture]]

[[et:Argent]]
[[fr:argent]]
[[io:Argent]]
[[ja:argent]]
[[no:Argent]]
[[pl:argent]]