"'''Arminian'''" in current usage is the opposite of "Calvinist"

Both are shorthand for positions on the "five points" generally ascribed to John Calvin.

A "'''Calvinist'''" believes in:

Total Depravity, Unconditional Atonement, Limited Election, Irresistable Grace, and Perseverance of the Saints

while an "Arminian" rejects all five.

I'll briefly sketch out the underpinnings of these doctrines:
'''Total depravity''' asserts that man in his natural state is evil, and he can not improve himself without intervention by God. 
'''Unconditional atonement''' asserts that the sacrificial death of Christ is applied without precondition - there is nothing an individual can do to "deserve" to be cleansed of sin.
'''Limited election''' asserts that God chose to apply this atonement only to certain people (the "elect") and that this "predestination" was made prior to the foundation of the world.
'''Irresistable grace''' asserts that God draws the "elect" to salvation without fail - i.e. that all the "elect" will be saved.
'''Perseverance of the saints''' asserts that the "elect" can not later become unelect or "reprobate".

Obviously these five doctrines are pretty tightly entertwined, so rejecting one of them tends to collapse the underlying philosophy. This leads to the Arminian philosophy.

The Arminian alternatives are:
'''Spark of goodness''': it is man's duty to "fan" his spark of goodness into a fire of holiness.
'''Conditional atonement''': Christ sacrificed for every human without exception, but it only takes effect if a man fulfills certain conditions.
'''Free will''': Salvation results from the exercise of man's will, rather than God's.
'''State of grace''': God desires all humans to be saved, but can only those who are cooperating are "saved".
'''Conditional salvation''': Even after achieving a "state of grace" a man may go back and forth between "saved" and "unsaved" conditions with his eternal destiny predicated on which state he is under at death.