==English==

{{rank|ask|question|doubt|411|around|black|lady|truth}}

===Etymology===
Probably from [[a]] (preposition) + [[round]].

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/əˈraʊnd/}} (''UK'')
*{{audio|en-us-around.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aʊnd|-aʊnd]]

===Adverb===
'''around'''

# In a circular formation.
#:''The jackals began to gather '''around'''.''
# Along the edges; on every side, in all directions.
#:''There isn't another house here for miles '''around'''.''
# In random places; aimlessly, with no real direction.
#:''There are too many kids in the town centre, just hanging '''around''' for hours.''
# With circular motion; coming back to a particular place.
#:''Well, my luck's really turned '''around'''!''
# ''(colloquial)'' Nearby, in the area.
#:''I'll see you '''around''', mate.''

===Preposition===
'''around'''

# Defining a circle or closed curve containing.
#: ''I planted a row of lillies '''around''' the statue.''
# Following a path which curves near an object, with the object on the inside of the curve
#: ''The road took a brief detour '''around''' the large rock formation, then continued straight.''
# Near (also applicable to time).
#: ''I left my keys somewhere '''around''' there.''
#: ''I left the house sometime '''around''' 10:00.''
# At various places in.
#: ''The pages from the notebook were scattered '''around''' the room.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Italian: [[attorno]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Related Terms===
*[[all around]]
*[[hang around]]
*[[round]]
*[[walk around ]]

===See Also===
*[[about]]
[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:English prepositions]]

[[ko:around]]
[[io:around]]
[[it:around]]
[[hu:around]]
[[ja:around]]
[[fi:around]]
[[ta:around]]
[[zh:around]]