{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Borrowed in the 19th century from Vedic Sanksrit, to apply to nomadic groups thought to have spread across Western Eurasia speaking a [[Proto-Indo-European]] language. The word is ultimately derived from ''[[Arya]]'', meaning ''[[noble]]''.

===Pronunciation===
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛəriən|-ɛəriən]] But in India it is pronounced as Aa-Ry-a.

===Homophones===
*[[Arian]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# A member of any of the many nomadic peoples thought to have traveled throughout Western [[Eurasia]] spreading a [[Proto-Indo-European]] language. (Some linguists and historians dispute the existence of the Aryans as a completely distinct group.)
# {{cattag|used by Nazis}} A member of a (mythical) [[master race]] characterised by blond hair and blue eyes, and supposed to have originated in Scandinavia, including Germans and other people of Nordic stock.

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}
# {{cattag|no longer in technical use}} Of or pertaining to [[Indo-European]]s or Aryan [[people]]s, [[culture]]s and [[language]]s.
#*To give just one illuminating illustration, we might mention the Nearly universal and quite uncritical acceptance by both Indian politicians and the generality of national and international academics, of the 19th Century myth of the "'''Aryan''' invasion of Dravidian India" and of the arbitrary classification of the population into '''Aryan''' and Dravidian ethnic types Neo-Colonial Captive Minds. Devan Nair (former President of Singapore) [http:www.infinityfoundation.com/ECITneocolonialframe.htm]
#*What little we know of the Vedic Age comes from the Rig-Veda. By the time the oral tradition of the '''Aryan''' religion was comitted to Sanskrit, however, some of the gods mentioned had already begun to lose their importance. Nevertheless, The Rig-Veda represented a blend of beliefs held by several '''Aryan''' tribes. [http://www.indialife.com/History/vedas.htm]
#*One of the main ideas used to interpret and generally devalue the ancient history of India is the theory of the '''Aryan''' invasion. According to this account, India was invaded and conquered by nomadic light-skinned Indo-European tribes from Central Asia around 1500-100 BC, who overthrew an earlier and more advanced dark-skinned Dravidian civilization from which they took most of what later became Hindu culture. This so-called pre-Aryan civilization is said to be evidenced by the large urban ruins of what has been called the "Indus valley culture" (as most of its initial sites were on the Indus river). The war between the powers of light and darkness, a prevalent idea in ancient '''Aryan''' Vedic scriptures, was thus interpreted to refer to this war between light and dark skinned peoples. The '''Aryan''' invasion theory thus turned the "Vedas", the original scriptures of ancient India and the Indo-Aryans, into little more than primitive poems of uncivilized plunderers. [www.hindunet.org/hindu_history/ancient/aryan/aryan_frawley.html]
# Pertaining, in [[Nazi]] [[propaganda]] and [[racial]] [[theory|theories]], to the (mythical) Aryan [[master race]].
#*The idea that the blond '''Aryans''' were a superior race was first raised explicitly in 1853 by one Joseph Arthur, comte de Gobineau. De Gobineau was a respected ethnologist who argued in all seriousness that the Aryan races would prosper as long as they did not allow themselves to be tainted by mixing with black and yellow peoples. De Gobineau's ideas were widely popular and are said to have influenced Richard Wagner and Friedrich Nietzsche. Stripped of the scholarly trappings, Aryanism soon filtered down to the beer halls and eventually became one of the central tenets of Nazism. [http://www.stormfront.org/forum/showthread.php?t=3165]
#*German sports imagery in the 1930s promoted the myth of '''Aryan''' racial superiority and physical power. Artists idealized athletes' well-developed muscle tone and heroic strength and accentuated so-called Aryan facial features -- blue eyes and blond hair. Such imagery also reflected the importance the Nazi regime placed on physical fitness. [http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/Holocaust/olympics.html]
# Pertaining to Neo-Nazi movements, people, etc.
#*The year is 2025, White people HAVE become a MINORITY in America. On our streets hang '''Aryan''' men who refused to accept the "New Way," or perhaps they just looked too White. [[http://www.americannaziparty.com/]
#*It is because of the adoption of the above philosophy that has led us to our support of  ALL Jihadic operations against jewish communism, in all its guises, including democracy, around the world.  We, as '''Aryans''', are fighting our own Aryan Jihad against jewry whom control the government of the u.S.A., who we refer to as ZOG (zionist occupational government). [http://www.aryan-nations.org/]

===Translations===
&nbsp;
====Translations to be checked====
This needs to be split into different tables.
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[آرِيّ]]}} (Ariyy)
*Dutch: [[Arisch]], [[Ariër]], [[Indo-Iraan]](s), (Proto-)[[Indo-Europees]], [[Indo-Germaan]](s) 
*French: [[aryen]], [[indo-européen]], [[indo-germanique]] 
*German: [[Arier]], [[arisch]], [[nicht-jüdisch]]
*Italian: [[ariano]]
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[آریایی]]}} (aryayi)
*Spanish: [[ario]], [[indo-europeo]]
*Swedish: [[arisk]], [[indoeuropeisk]]
Telugu: (Aarya)

===External links===
*[[w:Indo-European|Indo-European]]
*[[w:Indo-European languages|Indo-European languages]]
*[[w:Aryan Invasion Theory|Aryan Invasion Theory]]
*[[w:Aryan|Aryan]]

[[Category: English borrowed words]]
[[Category: Sanskrit derivations]]

[[io:Aryan]]
[[sr:Aryan]]
[[zh:Aryan]]