==English==
{{wikipediapar|atheism}}
===Etymology===
{{F.}} [[athéisme]], from [[athée]] "atheist", from {{Gr.}} [[αθεός]] (''atheós'') "godless".

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# Disbelief in or denial of the existence of [[deity|deities]].
## Disbelief in or denial of the existence of [[God]] or a [[supreme being]].
# The doctrine or belief that no deities exist.
# The absence of belief in deities.
# Godlessness; ungodliness; immorality.

====Derived terms====
*[[atheist]]
*[[atheists]]
*[[atheistic]]
*[[atheistical]]
*[[atheistically]]
*[[atheophobia]]
*[[apatheism]]

====Related terms====
*[[atheisms]]
*[[atheonism]]
*[[athean]]
*[[atheal]]
*[[theism]]
*[[monotheism]]
*[[polytheism]]
*[[pantheism]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Czech: [[ateismus]] ''m''
*Dutch: [[atheïsme]] ''n''
*Esperanto: [[ateismo]]
*Finnish: [[ateismi]]
*French: [[athéisme]] ''m''
*German: [[Atheismus]] ''m''
*Hungarian: [[ateizmus]]
*Latin: [[atheismus]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*[[Novial]]: [[ateisme]]
*Polish: [[ateizm]] ''m''
*Romanian: [[ateism]]
*Russian: [[атеизм]] (ateízm) ''m''
*Slovak: [[ateizmus]] ''m''
*Slovene: [[ateizem]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[ateism]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

====References====
{{R:American Heritage 2000|atheism}}
* Random House Unabridged Dictionary, © Random House, Inc. 2006. 31 Aug. 2006. <Dictionary.com

===See also===
*[[agnosticism]]
*[[deism]]

[[Category:Greek derivations]]
[[Category:Religion]]

[[de:atheism]]
[[fr:atheism]]
[[gl:atheism]]
[[hy:atheism]]
[[io:atheism]]
[[kk:atheism]]
[[hu:atheism]]
[[ru:atheism]]
[[fi:atheism]]
[[ta:atheism]]
[[vi:atheism]]