==English==
===Etymology===
[[a-]] + [[weary]]

===Adjective===
'''aweary'''
#''(Poetic):'' [[weary]], [[tired]].
#*{{RQ:Shakespeare Merchant}}, I-ii - ...my little body is '''aweary''' of this great world.
#*'''1830:''' [[w:Alfred Tennyson|Alfred Tennyson]], ''[[Wikisource:Mariana|Mariana]]'' - She said, 'I am '''aweary, aweary''', / I would that I were dead!'
#*'''1849+:''' [[w:George Ticknor|George Ticknor]], ''History Of Spanish Literature'' - And all his people told him that their horses were '''aweary''', and that they were '''aweary''' themselves.
#*'''1854:''' [[w:Charles Dickens|Charles Dickens]], ''[[Wikisource:Hard Times: Second Book: Chapter VIII|Hard Times: Second Book: Chapter VIII]] - ...when he is '''aweary''' of vice, and '''aweary''' of virtue, used up as to brimstone, and used up as to bliss; then, whether he take to the serving out of red tape, or to the kindling of red fire, he is the very Devil.
#*'''1891:''' [[w:Arthur Conan Doyle|Arthur Conan Doyle]], ''[[Wikisource:The White Company - Chapter XII|The White Company - Chapter XII]] - "Nay, save that she seems aweary".
#*'''1924 (posthumous, died 1910):''' [[w:Mark Twain|Mark Twain]], ''Autobiography'' - I was '''aweary, aweary''', and I put it in the waste basket. Ten days later the bill came again, and with it a shadowy threat. I waste-basketed it.
#*'''1940:''' [[w:Ngaio Marsh|Ngaio Marsh]], ''Death of a Peer'' - "I am '''aweary''' with watching," said Frid. "Praise to Allah the day is ours. Ho, slaves!"
===References===
*{{R:Webster 1913}}
*{{R:Century 1914}}

[[vi:aweary]]