==English==
[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
===Etymology 1===
See ''[[axe#Etymology 1|axe]]''.
====Pronunciation====
*ăks, /æks/, /<tt>{ks</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-æks|Rhymes: -æks]]

====Noun====
{{en-noun|ax|axes}}
#Spelling variant of ''[[axe#Etymology 1|axe]]''.
====Verb====
{{en-verb|ax|axes|axed|axing}}
#Spelling variant of ''to [[axe#Etymology 1|axe]]''

===Etymology 2===
See ''[[axe#Etymology 2|axe]]''.
====Noun====
{{en-noun|ax|axes}}
#Spelling variant of ''[[axe#Etymology 2|axe]]''
====Verb====
{{en-verb|ax|axes|axed|axing}}
#Spelling variant of ''to [[axe#Etymology 2|axe]]''

===Etymology 3===
====Verb====
{{en-verb|ax|axes|axed|axing}}

#Variant of ''to [[ask]]''.

=====Usage note=====
The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition, 2000 states that "''ax'', a common nonstandard variant of ''ask'', is often identified as an especially salient feature of African American Vernacular English. While it is true that the form is frequent in the speech of African Americans, it used to be common in the speech of white Americans as well, especially in New England. This should not be surprising since ''ax'' is a very old word in English, having been used in England for over 1,000 years. In Old English we find both ''[[scian]]'' and ''[[csian]]'', and in Middle English both ''[[asken]]'' and ''[[axen]]''. Moreover, the forms with "cs" or "x" had no stigma associated with them. Chaucer used ''[[asken]]'' and ''[[axen]]'' interchangeably, as in the lines 'I wol aske, if it hir will be/To be my wyf' and 'Men axed hym, what sholde bifalle,' both from The Canterbury Tales. The forms in "x" arose from the forms in "sk" by a linguistic process called metathesis, in which two sounds are reversed. The "x" thus represents /ks/, the flipped version of /sk/. Metathesis is a common linguistic process around the world and does not arise from a defect in speaking. Nevertheless, "ax" has become stigmatized as substandard - a fate that has befallen other words, like "ain't", that were once perfectly acceptable in literate circles.

----

==Icelandic==
===Etymology===
Old Norse
===Noun===
'''ax''' ''n''

# [[ear]] (of corn)

[[Category:Icelandic nouns]]

[[bg:ax]]
[[fr:ax]]
[[io:ax]]
[[ku:ax]]
[[fi:ax]]
[[zh:ax]]