:''See also:'' [[U]], [[û]]
[[Category:Latin letters|U]]
==Translingual==
===Symbol===
'''u'''
#(''metrology'') symbol for [[unified atomic mass unit]]


----

==English==
===Noun===
'''u'''
# The letter ''u''.
#:''The '''u''' looks much nicer in Arial than in Times New Roman font.''
# A thing in the shape of the letter [[U]]

====Derived expressions====
*[[u-turn]]
*[[u-bolt]]

===Abbreviation===
'''u'''
# [[underwater|Underwater]].
# [[you]]
====Derived expressions====
*[[u-boat]] (1)


----

==Bosnian==
===Preposition===
'''u'''
#[[in]]
#[[inside]]
#[[at]]
#in the [[possession]] of
[[Category:bs:Prepositions]]


----

==Czech==

===Preposition===
'''u'''

#[[at]]

[[Category:Czech prepositions]]


----

==Dutch==
[[Category:Dutch personal pronouns]]
[[Category:Dutch reflexive pronouns]]
===Personal pronoun===
'''u'''
# ''Second-person singular, subjective:'' [[you]] (''polite'').
#: ''Bent u klaar?'' &mdash; Are you ready?
#: ''Bent u er nog?'' &mdash; Are you still there?
# ''Second-person singular, objective:'' [[you]] (''polite'').
#: ''Ik zal het aan u geven.'' &mdash; I will give it to you.
#: ''Dit zal niet werken voor u.'' &mdash; This won’t work for you.
# ''Second-person singular, objective: ''[[thee]] (''dialectal'').
#: ''Ik doe dat wel voor u.'' &mdash; I’ll do it for thee.
# ''Second-person plural, subjective:'' [[you]] (''polite'').
#: ''Hebt u die oefening gemaakt?'' &mdash; Have your prepared that exercise?
# ''Second-person plural, objective:'' [[you]] (''polite'').
#: ''Ze zullen dat wel voor u doen.'' &mdash; They’ll do it for you.

====Usage notes====
* The capitalization of ''u'' (as in ''[[U]]'' or ''[[Uw]]'') is now considered [[old-fashioned]], and no longer compulsory. In religious context, it is still often capitalized.

====Related terms====
: ''See [[Wiktionary:Dutch inflection#Pronouns|Wiktionary:Dutch inflection]]''

===Reflexive pronoun===
'''u'''
# ''Second-person singular:'' [[thyself]] (''dialectal'')
#: ''Gij hebt u niet gewassen.'' &mdash; Thou hast not washed thyself.
# ''Second-person plural:'' [[thyselves]] (''dialectal'')
#: ''Wast u eens.'' &mdash; Wash thyselves.

====Related terms====
: ''See [[Wiktionary:Dutch inflection#Pronouns|Wiktionary:Dutch inflection]]''

====Usage notes====
: ''See usage notes at'' [[gij]].


----
==Japanese==
===Romaji===
'''u''' ([[う]])

# [[う]]: [[hiragana]] letter ''u''
# [[ウ]]: [[katakana]] letter ''u''

[[Category:Romaji]]


----

==Polish==
[[Category:Polish language]]
===Preposition===
'''u''' ''+ genitive''
# at

----

==Romansch==
===Etymology===
Latin [[aut]]
===Conjunction===
'''u'''

# [[or]]

[[Category:Romansch conjunctions]]

----

==Serbian==
===Preposition===
'''u'''
#[[in]]
#[[inside]]
#[[at]]
#in the [[possession]] of
====See also====
*[[у#Serbian|у]]
[[Category:sr:Prepositions]]


----

==Spanish==
[[Category:Spanish language]]
===Conjunction===
'''u'''
# [[or]] (when the next word starts with an ‘o’ or ‘ho.’ [[o#Spanish|O]] is used in other cases.)


----

==Swahili==
===Noun class===
'''u-'''
# Marks [[noun class]] 11, denoting [[abstract]] [[noun]]s, [[singulative]]s, elongated objects, and countries.
[[Category:Swahili noun classes]]

[[ang:u]]
[[de:u]]
[[es:u]]
[[eu:u]]
[[fr:u]]
[[gl:u]]
[[ko:u]]
[[id:u]]
[[ia:u]]
[[ku:u]]
[[la:u]]
[[nl:u]]
[[ja:u]]
[[pl:u]]
[[fi:u]]
[[zh:u]]