==English==

===Etymology===
German [[um]] + [[laut]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A partial [[assimilation]] of a vowel.
# A vowel so assimilated.
# {{orthography}}: The [[diacritical mark]] ( ¨ ) placed over a [[vowel]] to indicate such assimilation.
# {{linguistics}} The sound-change of a sequential vowel to reflect an earlier vowel (the first vowel is changed). English once had umlaut: odd plurals like mouse-mice, goose-geese are its fossils. German still has it, but only weakly, and only by [[analogy]]. 

====Usage notes====
*Although this symbol has the same form as the [[diaeresis]]/[[dieresis]], it has as a different function and so in standard and technical usage these two terms are not interchangeable.
*When [[spell]]ing a German word out loud, one can say “(vowel) umlaut” or “umlauted vowel”.  e.g. “oh umlaut” or “umlauted oh” mean “an ‘o’ with an umlaut over it”.

====Synonyms====
* (''nonstandard'') [[umlaut]]
* [[trema]]

====Translations====

'''partial assimilation of a vowel'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''vowel so assimilated'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''diacritical mark'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Umlaut]] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Slovak: [[dve bodky]] ''f'' (3)
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|umlaut||}}

# To place an umlaut over a vowel.

===Derived terms===
*[[heavy metal umlaut]]

===See also===
*[[diaeresis]], [[dieresis]]

----

==German==
{{rfc-split}}
===Noun===
'''Umlaut''' ''m''

# The [[diacritical mark]] ( ¨ ) placed over a vowel to indicate such assimilation.

[[zh:umlaut]]