==English==

===Verb form===
'''unbuttoned'''
# {{past tense of|unbuttoned}}
#She lay me down on my mom's warm parkay floors and took off her shirt and placed it under my head like a pillow.
She stared at me and then started to take off my clothing..
She unbuttoned my shirt and kissed every piece of my skin she had exposed on the way down to my chest.
She took it off me and balled it up and made it a second pillow for me.
Then she loosened my belt and slid it out from my waistline slow...and unbuttoned my pants.
She kept staring at me, all the while she did things to me, I guess to determine my expressions.
I looked her in the eyes and said to her, "It's okay I think. I want you to do this to me. I think...I love you."
She smiled and kissed me once on my lips tenderly parting them again with her tongue.
She peeled my pants down my legs like a rips banana, and kissed and licked my legs all the way down to my ankles.
It tickled, but not the funny kind.
Then she rolled her fingers over the top of elastic of my panties. "These are nice panties you have on", she said. I blushed.
She lowered her head onto my tummy, kissed it and then started to lick my belly to the tip of my panties and bit them off with her teeth.
Once she got them from between my legs enough, she let them go and before I knew it her tongue was inside my vagina and tsunamis of ecstasy flooded my body, creating woman like emotions inside my body, my head, my fingers, my thighs, my hips, my pelvis. 
I began to move and contract and heat rose in my face and up into my throat.


My face felt tingly and hot with sexy fire. 

I grabbed her head and tried to smash it into me so she could never come out. 

I was her woman now and in every sense of the word, I was feeling lust and wanted more. 

I became addicted to that feeling, and I yearned for her to live between my legs forever. 

Then as if that was not enough, I began to feel like I was filling up inside, like something inside of me needed to be released and I didn't know what that was. 

"What are you doing to me? What's happening to me? Stop it. Something is wrong. This is...this is..this..oh..oh..oh..wait..no..oh please oh please." 

And all the while I was screaming and climbing to get away from her, she never stopped licking me.
I continued. "Oh God..wait..Oh God..wait..oh..God..Oh..Oh no....Oh ssssssshhhhhhh!!!!!!!".
I screamed.
My insides erupted and pools of juices flowed from between my legs. I thought I was urinating on myself.
But it wasn't that. it was...me. My essence, my lathers, my nectar.
She unlocked a cave in me and released a female. 

I had had sex; been made love to for the first time, and I would never forget it.
Never forget her  - [http://lesbianxpansion.tripod.com/ac/authors/pmayarticlepg3.html]