==English==
===Adjective===
'''unintuitive'''

# Not [[intuitive]], not easily graspable by intuition
# In particular, [[counterintuitive]]; counter to what one's intuition expects.

===Quotations===
'''not easily grasped by intuition'''
* '''2003,''' Debora S Ray, Eric J Ray, ''UNIX'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=8aIxVvB1zR4C&pg=PA237&lpg=PA237&sig=HXpQtAxK9BB35d8TvgNahBU29Ps]
*: Despite <code>mail</code>’s '''unintuitive''' interface and features, it is a great program to use if you just want to dash off a quick message without fussing with niceties.
* '''2003,''' David Karlins, ''How to Do Everything with Illustrator CS'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=4WieDup--YUC&pg=PA4&lpg=PA4&sig=0HZH7XM--rzmUlRcWauBhvwYd3w]
*: Vectors give Illustrator its muscle, versatility, and subtlety, but many artists find vectors '''unintuitive''' and even frustrating.
* '''2004,''' Ben Forta, ''Teach Yourself Regular Expressions in 10 Minutes'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=Xrd6z2NMNawC&pg=PA1&lpg=PA1&sig=Ph1Gd57kuwnbGDgQA3D9O7AApOQ]
*: And those who have braved them find regular expression syntax to be '''unintuitive''', and even convoluted at times.  

'''counter to one's intuitions'''
* '''1995,''' Linda Mui, ''When You Can't Find Your UNIX System Administrator'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=vcCPyz32mSgC&pg=PA1&lpg=PA1&sig=MpEi2TftymDjoRnXONQRQZNgEzY]
*: UNIX people have this annoying way of pronouncing things in '''unintuitive''' ways (such as ''TeX'' and ''vi''), perhaps so they can tell the Outsiders from the people “in-the-know.”
* '''1995,''' T.C. Przymusinski, “Semantics of Normal and Disjunctive Logic Programs,” in ''Non-monotonic Extensions of Logic Programming,'' Jürgen Dix, Louis Moniz Pereira, and Teodor C. Przymusinski edd. [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=n0uTAAscbOYC&pg=PA55&lpg=PA55&sig=wg3LNDJOjDGYCGF-zwLRV1gUFL4]
*: For disjunctive logic programs the straight translation T¬<sub><small>ℒ</small></sub>(P) often leads to an '''unintuitive''' meaning.
* '''1995,''' Julia Annas, ''The Morality of Happiness'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=KRfwSjk3fBcC&pg=PA390&lpg=PA390&sig=vYWIX31rX74XZOuOGPx7UodyjYw]
*: I may well accept that I am happy if I am getting what benefits me; but if I am then told that what benefits me does so whatever I think about it, the notion of happiness in play comes to seem highly '''unintuitive'''.
* '''2001,''' Ernest Nagel, James R Newman, ''Gödel's Proof'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=jNzsLjQqnaYC&pg=PA13&lpg=PA13&sig=iUBw_MGoAK58lHQWRUzXwVBoeqA]
*: Intuition, for one thing, is an elastic faculty: our children will probably have no difficulty in accepting as intuitively obvious the paradoxes of relativity, just as we do not boggle at ideas that were regarded as wholly '''unintuitive''' a couple of generations ago.
* '''2003,''' Matthew Robinson, Pavel A Vorobiev, ''Swing'' [http://books.google.com/books?ie=UTF-8&hl=en&id=fxKik33QhxYC&pg=PA287&lpg=PA287&sig=b9B5bVq7jrHeCXc85N9JL0hFdA0]
*: Note that when you first start the example you need to press the up arrow or key to get to the next value in the sequence. This feels somewhat '''unintuitive''', but it is based on the index of the values in the array. <tt>AK</tt> is 0, <tt>AL</tt> is 1, and so forth.