==English==
===Noun===
'''unit''' (''plural'' '''units''')

#(''scientific'') A [[standard]] measure of a quantity.
#:''The centimetre is a '''unit''' of length.''
#An organized group comprising people and/or equipment.
#:''He was a member of a special police '''unit'''.''
#(''military'') A member of a military group.
#:''The fifth tank brigade moved in with 20 '''units'''.'' (''i.e. 20 tanks'')
#(''algebra'') An element of a [[ring]] having a [[multiplicative inverse]].
# (''commerce'') An item which may be sold singly.
#: ''We shipped nearly twice as many units this month as last month.''

====Synonyms====
*(''identity element''): [[identity element]], [[unit element]]

====Translations====

'''standard measure of a quantity'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Chinese: [[单位]] (danwei)
*Dutch: [[eenheid]] ''f''
*French: [[unité]] ''f''
*German: [[Einheit]] ''f''
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Italian: [[unità]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[単位]] ([[たんい]], tan'i)
|}
|}

'''organized group comprising people and/or equipment'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Chinese: [[部件]] (bujian)
*Dutch: [[eenheid]] ''f''
*German: [[Einheit]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[一式]] (いっしき, isshiki)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''member of a larger military group'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
*Dutch: [[eenheid]] ''f''
*Japanese: [[部隊]] ([[ぶたい]], butai), [[部門]] (ぶもん, bumon)
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

'''item sold singly'''
{| border=0  width=100%
|-
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
| width=1% |
|bgcolor="#FFFFE0" valign=top width=48%|
{|
|}
|}

The translations below might be out of synch with the definitions above.  Would native speakers please check them and insert them into the appropriate table(s) above.

*Finnish: [[yksikkö]] (1, 2), [[osasto]] (2, 3)
*German: [[Einheit]] ''f''
*Indonesian: [[satuan]]
*Korean: [[단위]] [單位] (danwi)
*Polish: [[jednostka]] ''f''
*Slovak: [[jednotka]] ''f''
*Spanish: [[unidad]] ''f''

===Adjective===
'''unit''' (not comparable)

# For each unit.
#: ''We have to keep our unit costs down if we want to make a profit.''
# (''mathematics'') Having a size or magnitude of one.
#: ''All solutions lie within the unit disc centered at the origin.''