==English==

{{rank|more|out|into|56|up|your|any|what}}

===Etymology===
Old English ''[[upp]]''

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|ŭp}}
* {{IPA|/ʌp/}}, /ap/ (Aust)
* {{SAMPA|/Vp/}}
* {{audio|en-us-up.ogg|Audio (US)}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ʌp|-ʌp]]

===Adverb===
{{en-adv|-}}

# [[away|Away]] from the center of the [[Earth]]; in [[opposite]] direction to the downward pull of [[gravity]].
#:* I looked '''up''' and saw the airplane overhead.
# Into [[pieces]].
#:* tear '''up'''
#:* chop '''up'''
# An abstract adverb of motion or change.
#:*mess '''up'''
#:*take '''up'''
# Used for [[intensity]] or [[emphasis]].
#:* speak '''up'''
#:* type '''up'''
# {{cattag|rail transport}} Traditional term for the direction leading to the principal terminus, towards milepost zero.
# {{cricket}} [[relatively]] [[close]] to the [[batsman]]
#:* The bowler pitched the ball '''up'''.

====Translations====
{{checktrans}}

{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[lart]]
*{{ttbc|Arabic}}: {{ARchar|[[فوق]]}} (fauq)
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[amunt]]
*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[向上]] (xiàngshàng)
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[uvis]]
*{{ttbc|Danish}}: [[opad]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[opwaarts]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[supren]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: (en) [[haut]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[aufwärts]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[fel]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: (in) [[su]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[上に]] (うえに, ue ni)
*{{ttbc|Korean}}: [[위에]] (wie), [[위로]] (wiro) 
*{{ttbc|Latvian}}: (uz) [[augšu]], [[augšā]]
*{{ttbc|Navajo}}: [[dah]]
*{{ttbc|Norwegian}}: [[opp]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: (para) [[cima]], [[acima]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: (în) [[sus]]
*{{ttbc|Russian}}: [[наверх]] (navérχ)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: (hacia) [[arriba]]
*{{ttbc|Swedish}}: [[uppåt]]
{{bottom}}

===Preposition===
'''up'''

# Toward the [[top]] of
#:* The cat went '''up''' the tree.
# Further [[along]] (in any direction).
#:* Go '''up''' the street until you see the sign.
# [[north|North]].
#:''I’m going '''up''' to New York to visit my family this weekend.''
# [[high|Higher]] or [[loud]]er.
#: Turn the volume '''up'''.
# Higher in [[pitch]].
#:* Listen to your voice go '''up''' at the end of a question.

====Translations====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[al]] [[la]] [[supro]] [[de]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[上]] (うえ, ue)
*{{ttbc|Navajo}}: [[dah]]
*{{ttbc|Portuguese}}: [[alto]], [[no alto]], [[para o alto]]

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}

# [[awake|Awake]].
#:* I can’t believe it’s 3 a.m. and you’re still '''up'''.
# In a good [[mood]].
#:* I’m feeling '''up''' today.
# [[willing|Willing]]; [[ready]].
#:* If you are '''up''' for a trip, let’s go.
# Next in a [[sequence]].
#:* Smith is next '''up''' to bat.
# [[face|Facing]] upwards; facing toward the top.
#:* Put the notebook face '''up''' on the table.
# [[stand|Standing]].
#:* Get '''up''' and give her your seat.
# [[available|Available]]; made [[public]].
#: The new notices are '''up''' as of last Tuesday.
# Of a person, [[informed]] about; [[abreast]] of; [[current]].
#:* I’m not '''up''' on the latest news. What’s going on?
# {{computing}} [[Functional]]; working.
#:* Is the server back '''up'''?

====Translations====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[bonhumora]], [[funkcii|funkcianta]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

# The [[direction]] away from the [[center]] of the [[Earth]], opposed to the pull of gravity.
#:* '''Up''' is a good way to go.

====Translations====
;direction away from the Earth's center
*Esperanto: [[supren]]
*Korean: [[위]] (wi)

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|up|p|ing}}

# {{cattag|US|colloquial}} To [[increase]] or [[raise]].
#:*If we '''up''' the volume, we'll be able to make out the details.
# {{cattag|US|colloquial}} To [[promote]].
#:*It wasn’t long before they '''upped''' him to Vice President.

===Related terms===
{{top}}
*[[back up]]
*[[backup]]
*[[bottoms up]]
*[[bottom-up]]
*[[look up]]
*[[lookup]]
*[[one-up]]
*[[runner up]]
*[[run up]]
*[[runup]]
*[[turn up]]
{{mid}}
*[[upside]]
*[[upside down]]
*[[upper]]
*[[upon]]
*[[uppity]]
*[[up a creek]]
*[[upwards]]
*[[upward]]
*[[up to]]
*[[walkup]]
{{bottom}}

=== Quotations ===
*'''1925''': Walter Anthony and Tom Reed (titles), Rupert Julian (director), ''The Phantom of the Opera'', silent movie
*:‘<!--sic-->The Phantom! The Phantom is '''up''' from the cellars again!’

===Other idiomatic usage===

{{rfc}}

* [[bring up]]: to direct a conversation to a topic or an issue
* [[brush up]]: to refresh ones knowledge of something; to reacquaint oneself
* [[buck up]]: draw on a reserve of inner strength
* buck up: forward to higher authority for resolution
* [[buckle up]]: to don a protective device, e.g., auto seat belt; parachute
* [[build up]]: to create, e.g., build up a list; build up a physique
* [[burn up]]: to be burned such that there is nothing left
* [[call up]]: telephone someone
* [[chat up]]: (UK) to have a conversation with someone
* [[come up]]: becomes a topic, as in conversation, e.g., that topic came up today
* [[clog up]], [[clogged up]]: passage impeded as in a clogged up drain pipe, or a traffic jam
* [[cloud up]]: to become cloudy
* [[clear up]]: to become sunny
* [[clean up]]: to make something clean or orderly, e.g., clean up the kitchen
* clean up: to win by a wide margin in sports, gambling, or business
* [[close up]]: to close for business; e.g., close up shop (at night); permanent closure is "closing down".
* [[dress up]], [[dressed up]]: wearing special clothing; note: to be dressed is ordinary; to be dressed up is special
* [[dry up]]: to lose moisture, or content, as in a "dry well"
* [[eat up]]: to eat it all
* '[[fess up]] (mainly US): to confess
* [[finish up]]: to complete a task or action
* [[fix up]]: to repair, e.g., fix up the old car.
* [[fuck up]]: (vulgar) to err
* [[gang up]], [[gang up on]]: to collaborate in opposition (to someone); e.g., "They ganged up on him."
* [[give up]]: to discontinue, abandon, e.g., don’t give up yet
* [[going up]]: travelling to Oxford University or Cambridge University (if expelled from either, they are "sent down")
* [[kick up]]: to create something bad, e.g., don’t kick up a fuss
* [[knock up]]: to impregnate
* [[lash up]]: (UK) improvised temporary solution to technical problem
* [[line up]]: to create a queue, e.g., line up for tickets
* [[lock up]]: to secure, e.g., lock up the house before leaving
* [[mess up]]: to err, make a mistake
* [[mock up]]: to create a preliminary version or a trial version of
* muck up: to err; to make a mess of things
* [[one-uppmanship: outdoing
* [[open up]]: to open for business; e.g., open up a store or theatre
* open up, [[opened up]]; confusing usage: a drain must be opened up (cleared) because it is stopped up (clogged).
* [[polish up]]: to remove tarnish, e.g., polish up silverware
* [[pucker up]]: to purse lips to kiss
* [[ring up]]: to telephone
* [[screw up]]: to make a serious error in doing something.
* [[shut up]]: to cease speaking (impolite expression); to close, e.g., a house, a box
* [[speak up]]: to voice an opinion; to speak more loudly
* [[stir up]]: to mix, e.g., stir up a martini
* stir up: to create disarray or trouble
* [[stop up]], [[stopped up]]: clogged; see [[opened up]]
* [[take up]]: to require, e.g., takes up a lot of time
* take up: to remove the slack, e.g., to take up the fishing line
* take up: to turn one’s attention to, e.g., take up the next topic for discussion
* [[think up]]: to create in one’s mind; e.g., think up excuses
* time is [[up]]: to come to an end
* [[top up]]: to make full, e.g., to fill a auto gas tank completely; also top off
* [[wets up]]: to become wet, e.g., rain wets up the earth
* [[wrap up]]: to enclose; to finish
* [[up for]] election: to be a candidate for elective office
* [[up to]] him (or her): the duty to do something
* [[up to it]]: able to cope
* [[wake up]]: awaken in the morning
* [[warm up]]: to raise the temperature, e.g., warm up the leftovers for dinner
* [[wind up]]: to come to be, e.g., this list will wind up longer than you might think
* [[work up]]: to create, e.g., to work up an appetite; exercise to work up a sweat
* [[write up]]: to create a report

[[Category:Positive words]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English prepositions]]

[[fa:up]]
[[fr:up]]
[[hy:up]]
[[io:up]]
[[it:up]]
[[hu:up]]
[[ja:up]]
[[simple:up]]
[[sl:up]]
[[fi:up]]
[[ta:up]]
[[vi:up]]
[[uk:up]]
[[zh:up]]