* '''Alternate form''': [[覀]]

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index| Radical]] Number 146''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index 西|西]]+0 stroke

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index|Stroke number]]''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index 6|6]]

* '''Stroke order''':
*# The top-most horizontal stroke is done, from left to right.
*# The left-most vertical stroke is done, from top to bottom.
*# The middle horizontal line and the right-most vertical line are done as one stroke, from top-left to bottom-right.
*# The left-most of the two strokes that crosses through the middle horizontal stroke is done, from top to bottom.
*# The right-most of the two strokes (the L-shaped one) is done, from top-left to bottom-right.
*# The bottom-most horizontal stroke is done, from left to right.

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese four corner index|Four-Corner System]]''': 1060<sub>0</sub>

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese Cangjie index|Cangjie input]]''': 一金田 (MCW)

* '''Graphical Significance and Origin''':
::It is derived from a pictogram of a bird settling into its nest, and by analogy with the setting of the sun means "west".

*'''Common meaning''':
*# [[west]], [[western]]
*# [[westward]], [[occident]]

----

== Chinese [[Hanzi]]==

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[Mandarin]]'''
*** '''[[Pinyin]]''': xī (xi1), yāo (yao1), yǎo (yao3)
*** '''[[Wade-Giles]]''': hsi<sup>1</sup>, yao<sup>1</sup>, yao<sup>3</sup>
*** '''[[Yale]]''': syi
** '''[[Cantonese]]'''
*** '''[[Jyutping]]''':
*** '''[[Penkyamp]]''': 
*** '''[[Yale]]''': sai1

===Compounds===
*[[西安]]
*[[西班牙]]
*[[西半球]]
*[[西北]]
*[[西边]], [[西边儿]]
*[[西部]]
*[[西点]]
*[[西方]]
*[[西非]]
*[[西风]]
*[[西凤酒]]
*[[西服]]
*[[西瓜]]
*[[西红柿]]
*[[西葫芦]]
*[[西化]]
*[[西经]]
*[[西历]]
*[[西米]]
*[[西面]]
*[[西南]]
*[[西欧]]
*[[西萨摩亚]]
*[[西晒]]
*[[西施]]
*[[西式]]
*[[西天]]
*[[西文]]
*[[西西里]], [[西西里岛]]
*[[西学]]
*[[西洋]]
*[[西洋画]]
*[[西洋景]]
*[[西洋参]]
*[[西药]]
*[[西医]]
*[[西语]]
*[[西域]]
*[[西元]]
*[[西装]]

* '''Other info''':  &#35199; is the 146th radical of the Chinese dictionary.  In its few compounds it most often appears at the top in the form &#35200; as in [[&#35204;]].  It is important to distinguish it from [[&#35198;]] and [[&#37193;]].

----

== Japanese [[kanji]] ==

* '''Readings'''
** '''[[On]]''': [[せい]] (sei), [[さい]] (sai)
** '''[[Kun]]''': [[にし]] (nishi)

===Compounds===
*[[西欧]]
*[[西瓜]]
*[[西経]]
*[[西洋]]
*[[西暦]]

* '''Other info''':  ''nishi'' may be used as separate word.  ''sei'', on the other hand, is used mainly in compounds, like  [[西南]] (せいなん ''seinan'') - south west (literaly "west south").
----

== Korean [[Hanja]] ==

* '''[[Hangeul]]''': 서

* '''[[Eumhun]] reading''': 

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[The 2000 South Korean Revised Romanization|The 2000 South Korean Revised]]''': seo
** '''[[McCune-Reischauer]]''': sŏ
** '''[[Yale]]''': se

* '''Examples'''
** 서부 [西部] (seobu) western (part)

----

==Vietnamese==

*tây

*[[phía tây]]

----

== Dictionary Information ==

* KangXi: 1128.100
* Morobashi: 34763
* Dae Jaweon: 1595.190
* Hanyu Da Zidian: 42805.020

== Technical Information ==

* '''Unicode''':
** Hex: 897F
** Decimal: 35199
* '''Big5''':
** Hex: A6E8
** Decimal: 42728

[[es:西 xī]]
[[fr:西]]
[[hu:西]]
[[ja:西]]
[[pl:西]]