==Malayalam==
===Noun===
'''അമ്മ''' (amma)
#[[mother]]
====Declension====
{{ml-noun-a|1=അമ്മ|2=അമ്മേ}}
=====Singular=====

* '''Nominative''': അമ്മ..........      ''/amma/''
* '''Vocative''': അമ്മേ..........       ''/ammeː/'' 
* '''Accusative''': അമ്മയെ..........   ''/ammaje/'' 
* '''Dative''': അമ്മയ്ക്ക് ...........       ''/ammajkk(u)/'' 
* '''Genitive''': അമ്മയുടെ ..........   ''/ammajuʈe/''
* '''Locative''': അമ്മയില് ...........   ''/ammajil/''

=====Plural=====
* '''Nominative''': അമ്മമാര് ...........      ''/ammamaːr/'' 
* '''Vocative''': അമ്മമാരേ  ...........     ''/ammamaːreː/'' 
* '''Accusative''': അമ്മമാരെ  ..........    ''/ammamaːre/'' 
* '''Dative''': അമ്മമാര്ക്ക്    ..........     ''/ammamaːrkk(u)/'' 
* '''Genitive''': അമ്മമാരുടെ  ..........     ''/ammamaːruʈe/'' 
* '''Locative''': അമ്മമാരില്   ..........    ''/ammamaːril/''

====Derived terms====
*എന്റ്റമ്മോ...........''/entammoː/''..........Exclamation, similiar to "Oh my God". Literally "my mother (irregular vocative)".
*അമ്മുമ്മ..........''/ammumma/''..........Grandmother.
*വലിയമ്മ..........''/ʋaliyamma/''..........Older maternal aunt. Literally "big mother".
*കുഞ്ഞമ്മ..........''/kuɲɲamma/''..........or...........കൊച്ചമ്മ..........''/kotʃtʃamma/''..........Younger maternal aunt. Literally "small mother".

====Synonyms====

* പെറ്റമ്മ ..........     ''/pettamma/''..........  This is used, generally in an affectionate sense or to emphasise motherhood. It literally means "mother who gave birth".

* മാതാവ് ..........    ''/maːθaːʋ(u)/''...........    This word was derived from Sanskrit ''maːtar'' and is considered very formal.
* തള്ള ..........      ''/θaɭɭa/'' ..........  This is a very colloquial and rude term meaning mother.
* ഉമ്മ     ..........   ''/umma/''  ..........        This is the word that most muslims who speak malayalam use for mother.
* അമ്മച്ചി  ...........    ''/ammatʃtʃi/''..........  This term is used, mainly by Christians, to mean mother. Howevery, it can also be a derogatory term for an old woman.

===See also===
[[അച്ഛന് ]] (father)

[[Category:Malayalam nouns]]