* '''Alternate form''': [[马]]

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index| Radical]] Number 187''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index 馬|馬]]+0 stroke

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index|Stroke number]]''': [[Wiktionary:Chinese total strokes index 10|10]]

* '''Stroke order''': 

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese four corner index|Four-Corner System]]''': 7132<sub>7</sub>

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese Cangjie index|Cangjie input]]''': 尸手尸火 (SQSF)

* '''Graphical Significance and Origin''': It is derived from the pictogram of a horse with its head turned to look back and showing a flowing mane in the wind. The four short strokes at its base represent its feet, and the seeping stroke in the lower right represents its tail.

* '''Common Meaning'''
*# [[horse]]
*# surname
*# KangXi radical 187 [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index 馬|馬]]

----

== [[Chinese]] [[Hanzi]] ==

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[Mandarin]]'''
*** '''[[Pinyin]]''': mǎ (ma3)
*** '''[[Wade-Giles]]''': ma<sup>3</sup>
*** '''[[Yale]]''': 
** '''[[Cantonese]]'''
*** '''[[Jyutping]]''': maa5
*** '''[[Penkyamp]]''': 
*** '''[[Yale]]''': ma5

* '''Style''': [[Traditional Chinese]] 
** '''[[Simplified Chinese|Simplified]] equivalent''': [[马]]

* '''Other info''': &#39340; is the 187th [[Wiktionary:Chinese radical index|radical]] of the Chinese dictionary.  Compound characters such as [[&#39438;]] will mostly have the radical on the left with a meaning frequently related to horses.

----

== [[Japanese]] [[Kanji]] ==

* '''Readings'''
** '''[[On]]''': [[ば]] (ba), [[め]] (me), [[ま]] (ma)
** '''[[Kun]]''': [[うま]] (uma), [[ま]] (ma-)

===Compounds===
*[[馬酔木]]
*[[馬が合う]]
*[[馬面]]
*[[馬鹿]]
*[[馬鹿力]]
*[[馬脚]]
*[[馬具]]
*[[馬券]]
*[[馬耳東風]]
*[[馬車]]
*[[馬車馬]]
*[[馬術]]
*[[馬上]]
*[[馬力]]
*[[馬鈴薯]]
*[[馬簾]]
*[[馬子]]
*[[馬手]]
*[[馬馬虎虎]] (mǎ mǎ hǔ hǔ; [[马马虎虎]])
*[[木馬]]
*[[競馬]]
*[[弓馬]]

* '''Other info''':  The Kun reading /uma/ may be used alone as a word for [[horse]] or as part of another word.  The On reading is usually part of a word, for example [[乗馬]] (じょうば /zyooba/ "horseback riding") or [[駟馬]] (しめ /sime/ or しば /siba/ "a set of four horses for drawing a carriage"). /ma-/ is not an On reading and is rather a bound morpheme attested since the Old Japanese period. It has not appeared alone as a free word since the earliest Japanese anthology, the Manyoshu, but it still lingers on in Modern Japanese in such forms as /ma-gusa/ (hay; fodder for horses or cattle) and /ma-guso/ (horse droppings). As for the etymological relationship between the Japanese Kun readings, the form /uma/ has probably evolved from an older form /mima/, which is actually attested in compounds and names of Emperors in Old Japanese and still appears in toponyms (placenames) even today. /mima/ itself was probably a compound of the Old Japanese honorific prefix /mi-/, which had the same function as Modern Japanese /o-/, and the original Japanese root for "horse," i.e. */ma/. In the same manner as */mi-ma/ became fossilized as /mima/ and later eroded into /muma/ or /uma/, the Chinese loanword /tya/ (tea) has been prefixed with the more recent Japanese honorific prefix /o-/ and become fixed as /o-tya/(pronounced "ocha") no matter whether a speaker really wants to indicate respect toward the tea or its provider. No one says just /tya/ ("cha") in Modern Japanese, just as no one says just /ma-/; one has to say "uma."

----

== [[Korean]] [[Hanja]] ==

* '''[[Hangeul]]''': [[말]] /mal/, this is Korean (Hangeul) for horse.
** 말 seems to be transformed from phonetical transcription of Chinese.
** But 말 as pure Korean word has another sense: it means spoken word.

* '''[[Hanja]]''': 마 (馬) /ma/, that is '''phonetical''' transcription of Chinese 馬.
** 마 is used as prefix or suffix of complex words.
* '''Example Words'''
** 마차 (ma-cha, 馬車): horse-drawn carriage
** 경마 (gyeong-ma, 競馬): horserace

* '''Romanizations'''
** '''[[The 2000 South Korean Revised Romanization|The 2000 South Korean Revised]]''': ma
** '''[[McCune-Reischauer]]''': ma
** '''[[Yale]]''': ma

----

== Dictionary Information ==

* KangXi: 1433.010
* Morobashi: 44572
* Dae Jaweon: 1956.340
* Hanyu Da Zidian: 74539.010

== Technical Information ==

* '''Unicode''':
** Hex: 99AC
** Decimal: 39340
* '''Big5''':
** Hex: B0A8
** Decimal: 45224