{{see|in|In|-in-}}

==English==
===Suffix===
'''-in'''

# {{cattag|Geordie}} Used to form the [[present participle]]s of [[verb]]s.
#:''gannin'' as in ''"Are ye gannin or what?"''
# {{cattag|Geordie}} Used to form [[verbal noun]]s from verbs.
#:''myekin'' as in ''"The myekin of the boat."''

[[category:English suffixes]]

==Ido==
===Suffix===
# [[Female]]

----

==Finnish==

===Case suffix===
'''-in'''

# Suffix for the [[genitive]] plural.

====Usage====
*Suffixed to the nominative singular but the final '''-i''' changes to '''-e-'''.
*Nowadays This suffix is rare and usually gives archaic tone. Certain names, however, retain this, eg. ''Yhdysvaltain'' from ''[[Yhdysvallat]]'' (singular stem '''Yhdysvalta-'''), where also the more modern form ''Yhdysvaltojen'' is possible.

====See also====
*[[-den#Finnish|-den]]
*[[-en#Finnish|-en]]
*[[-n#Finnish|-n]]
*[[-ten#Finnish|-ten]]
*[[-tten#Finnish|-tten]]

===Case suffix===
'''-in'''

# Suffix variant for the illative singular, see [[-Vn]].

===Adjectival suffix===
'''-in'''

# Forms [[superlative]]s from [[adjective]]s and certain [[adverb]]s.

====Usage====

The suffix is appended to the genitive singular stem but it causes the same changes as the plural marker '''-i-'''. Therefore, it's equivalent to append just '''-n''' to the (possibly weak) plural stem, eg. from the [[inessive]] plural.

====Declension====

The suffix has the form '''-in''' only in the nominative and partitive singular. It has, in other singular cases, the strong vowel stem '''-impa/impä-''' and the weak vowel stem '''-imma/immä-'''; in plural, it has the strong vowel stem '''-impi-''' and the weak vowel stem '''-immi-'''. The adjective ''[[jäykkä]]'' "stiff" has the following forms:


{| border="1"
|-----
| nominative singular || jäykkä 
|-----
| genitive singular || jäykän  
|-----
| inessive plural || jäykissä
|-----
| colspan="2" align="center" | SUPERLATIVE
|-----
| nominative singular || jäyk'''in'''
|-----
| genitive singular || jäyk'''immä'''n
|-----
| partitive singular || jäyk'''in'''tä
|-----
| essive singular || jäyk'''impä'''nä
|-----
| genitive plural || jäyk'''impi'''en
|-----
| partitive plural || jäyk'''impi'''ä
|-----
| inessive plural || jäyk'''immi'''ssä
|}

====See also====
*[[-mpi#Finnish|-mpi]]

===Deverbal suffix===
'''-in''' (''stems'' '''-ime-''', '''-in-''', '''-imi-''')

# Used to form inanimate instrumental nouns from verbs and verbal stems.

====Examples====
* ''[[avata#Finnish|avata]]'' "to open" -> ''[[avain#Finnish|avain]]'' "key"
* ''[[keittää#Finnish|keittää]]'' "to cook, boil" -> ''[[keitin#Finnish|keitin]]'' "appliance for cooking/boiling"
* ''[[puhella#Finnish|puhella]]'' "to chat, chatter" (''derivative of [[puhua]]'' "to talk") -> ''[[puhelin#Finnish|puhelin]]'' "telephone"

====Declension====
The suffix has the form '''-in-''' in the partitive singular, '''-ime-''' in other singular cases and the nominative plural and '''-imi-''' in other plural cases. The stem can undergo reverse gradation.

====See also====
*[[-ari#Finnish|-ari]]
*[[-ja#Finnish|-ja]]
*[[-tar#Finnish|-tär]]
*[[-uri#Finnish|-uri]]
[[Category:Ido suffixes]] [[Category:Finnish suffixes]]
----

==Turkish==
====Genetivus====
'''-ın''' (''with back vowel harmony'')

'''-in''' (''with front vowel harmony'')

Other forms: -un, -ün (''if last vocal is o, ö, u, or ü''), -nın, -nin, -nun, -nün (after a vocal)

*Ali''nin'': Ali's
*kapı''nın'': of the door
*Exceptions: ben''im''=of me, biz''im''=of us
[[de:-in]]
[[fr:-in]]
[[pt:-in]]
[[ro:-in]]