==English==
===Suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form [[regular plural]]s of nouns.
#:''computers''
#Used to form the [[third-person]] [[singular]] [[indicative]] [[present tense]] of verbs.
#:''eats''

==Finnish==
===Case suffix===
'''-s'''

# (''colloquial or dialectal'') Used to form the [[inessive]] case.

===Nominal suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form [[ordinal]] numbers from [[cardinal]] numbers, or ordinal pronouns.
#:''[[mones#Finnish|mones]]''

====Usage notes====
*The ordinal suffix is appended to the [[genitive]] singular stem of the numeral or other word.
*It has the form '''-s''' only in the [[nominative]] singular. The suffix has [[strong vowel stem]] '''-nte-''', [[weak vowel stem]] '''-nne-''', [[partitive]] singular stem '''-t-''' and plural stem '''-nsi-'''. For example, the genitive singular of '''viisi''' "5" is '''viiden''', whence the genitive singular stem '''viide-''':


{| border="1"
|-----
! case
! form
|-----
| nominative singular || viide'''s'''
|-----
| genitive singular || viide'''nne'''n
|-----
| partitive singular || viide'''t'''tä
|-----
| essive singular || viide'''nte'''nä
|-----
| genitive plural || viide'''nsi'''en
|-----
| partitive plural || viide'''nsi'''ä
|}

===Verbal suffix===
'''-s'''

# When appended to second person singular or plural imperative, gives the command or request slightly rude or impatient tone.
#: ''Kuulkaas nyt!'' "Now, listen (''plural or polite'') to me!"

==French==
===Suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form the regular plural of nouns.
#:''hommes''

===See also===
*[[-x]]

==Norwegian==
===Suffix===
[[Category:Norwegian suffixes|s]]
'''-s'''
#Used to form the [[genitive]] case of nouns.
#Used to form the [[passive]] of verbs.

====Usage notes====
*If the genitive noun already ends with a [[sibilant]], only an apostrophe ([[-']]) is added. It is incorrect to use an apostrophe before the ''s''.

==Spanish==
===Suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form the regular plural of nouns.
#:''amigos''

==Swedish==
===Suffix===
'''-s'''

#Used to form the [[genitive]] case of nouns.
#Used to form the [[passive]] of verbs.

[[Category:English suffixes|s]]
[[Category:Finnish suffixes|s]]
[[Category:French suffixes|s]]
[[Category:Swedish suffixes|s]]

[[fr:-s]]
[[vo:-s]]