== Pronunciation ==
\-ward\ (w[~e]rd), -wards \-wards\ (w[~e]rdz).
[[AS.]] -weard, -weardes; akin to OS. & OFries. -ward. OHG. -wert, G.
-w["a]rts, Icel. -ver[eth]r, Goth. -va['i]r[thorn]s, L. vertere to turn, versus toward, and E. worth to become. [root]143.

See [[wort]]. [[v. i.]], and [[cf.]] [[verse]].

== Adverb ==
Adverbs ending in -wards (AS. -weardes) and some other adverbs, such
as besides, betimes, since (OE. sithens). etc., were
originally genitive forms used adverbially.] Suffixes denoting course or direction to; motion or tendency toward; as in backward, or backwards; toward, or towards, etc.

== Noun ==

AS. weard, fem., guard, weard, masc., keeper, guard; akin to OS. ward a watcher, warden, G. wart, OHG. wart, Icel. v["o]r[eth]r a warden, a watch, Goth. -wards in da['u]rawards a doorkeeper, and E. wary; cf. OF. warde guard, from the German. See [[ware]], a., [[wary]]}, and cf. [guard]], [[wraith]].

1. The act of guarding; watch; guard; guardianship; specifically, a guarding during the day. See the Note under [[watch]], n., 1.

 Still, when she slept, he kept both watch and ward.                                               --Spenser.
2. One who, or that which, guards; garrison; defender;protector; means of guarding; defense; protection.

 For the best ward of mine honor.      --Shak.

 The assieged castle's ward Their steadfast stands did mightily maintain.                --Spenser.

 For want of other ward, He lifted up his hand, his front to guard.                       --Dryden.

3. The state of being under guard or guardianship; confinement under guard; the condition of a child under a guardian; custody.

 And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard.                         --Gen. xl. 3.

 I must attend his majesty's command, to whom I am now in ward.                          --Shak.

 It is also inconvenient, in Ireland, that the wards and marriages of gentlemen's children should be in the disposal of any of those lords.   --Spenser.

4. A guarding or defensive motion or position, as in fencing; guard. ``Thou knowest my old ward; here I lay, and thus I  bore my point.'' --Shak.

5. One who, or that which, is guarded. Specifically :

(a) A minor or person under the care of a guardian; as, a ward in chancery. ``You know our father's ward, the fair Monimia.'' --Otway.

(b) A division of a county. [Eng. & Scot.]

(c) A division, district, or quarter of a town or city.

 Throughout the trembling city placed a guard, Dealing an equal share to every ward. --Dryden.

(d) A division of a forest. [Eng.]

(e) A division of a hospital; as, a fever ward.

6.

(a) A projecting ridge of metal in the interior of a lock, to prevent the use of any key which has not a corresponding notch for passing it.

(b) A notch or slit in a key corresponding to a ridge in the lock which it fits; a ward notch. --Knight.

 The lock is made . . . more secure by attaching wards to the front, as well as to the back, plate of the lock, in which case the key must be              furnished with corresponding notches.                                               --Tomlinson.

*Ward penny (O. Eng. Law), money paid to the sheriff or castellan for watching and warding a castle.

*Ward staff, a constable's or watchman's staff. [Obs.]

== Verb ==

==== Transitive==
\Ward\, v. t. [imp. & p. p. {Warded}; p. pr. & vb. n.
{Warding}.] [OE. wardien, AS. weardian to keep, protect; akin
to OS. ward?n to watch, take care, OFries. wardia, OHG.
wart?n, G. warten to wait, wait on, attend to, Icel. var?a to
guarantee defend, Sw. v[*a]rda to guard, to watch; cf. OF.
warder, of German origin. See {Ward}, n., and cf. {Award},
{Guard}, {Reward}.]
1. To keep in safety; to watch; to guard; formerly, in a specific sense, to guard during the day time.

 Whose gates he found fast shut, no living wight To ward the same.                        --Spenser.

2. To defend; to protect.

 Tell him it was a hand that warded him From thousand dangers.                             --Shak.

3. To defend by walls, fortifications, etc. [Obs.]

4. To fend off; to repel; to turn aside, as anything mischievous that approaches; -- usually followed by off.

 Now wards a felling blow, now strikes again.                                               --Daniel.
 The pointed javelin warded off his rage. --Addison.

 It instructs the scholar in the various methods of warding off the force of objections.  --I. Watts.

=== Intransitive ===

1. To be vigilant; to keep guard.

2. To act on the defensive with a weapon.

 She redoubling her blows drove the stranger to no other shift than to ward and go back. --Sir P.                                           Sidney.