''This entry needs to be changed into the format of the template: [[Wiktionary:Entries on Chinese characters]].''
----

漢 looks like<br>
http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/gifs/200x200/2033.gif<br>
<br>
As a chinese character, 漢 can be broken down to:  [[水]] (water), [[廾]] (grass), [[口]] (mouth) and [[夫]] ().

The [[Chinese radical|radical]] 水 (water) on the left appears as 氵. It usually apears as 氵 if it is written on the left of a character. For example, these are characters with water radical on the left: [...]. [What is commont to all the Chinese characters, which have Water radical as the primary key?]

Then you can see the radical 廾 (grass).

Then you can see the radical 口 (mouth).

And then you can see 夫 ().



* '''Alternate form(s)''': [[]]

* '''[[Wiktionary:Chinese radical | Radical]]''': [[氵]] (number 85)

* '''Stroke number''': 13

* '''Graphical Significance and Origin''': 

<hr>

==In [[Chinese|Chinese]],==

<hr>

==In [[Japanese|Japanese]],==
# 漢 mean "[[Chinese]]". (漢～ mean [[Chinese]]~)<br>

漢 writing method you can see in [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/movies/2033.mov movie]. (need a *.mov file player)<br>
漢 [[ON reading]] is カン (kan).<br>
漢 [[NANORI reading]] はん (han).<br>
漢 does not have [[KUN reading]].<br>

You can try to [http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/data/2033.html write] it in the green field (need java support).

Etymologically, 漢 is [...]<br>

<hr>

==In [[Korean|Korean]],==


=External Link=

[http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/kuten/2033.html http://web.mit.edu/jpnet/ji/kuten/2033.html] - here you can see movie how to write the character in Japanese. Also you can see several compound meaning.

[http://www.yamagishi.ch/dixn/ http://www.yamagishi.ch/dixn/] - here you can see the sequence of writing more kanji than there are displayed in the movies. However the page is in [[German]] :(.

[http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/cgi-bin/cgiwrap/jwb/wwwjdic?1B Jim Breen's WWWJDIC Server] - Look for kanji parameters (like [[JIS code]], [[Kuten]], [[Shift-JIS]], [[Unicode]], [[Classic Nelson]], [[Bushu]] (radical no.), [[Stroke Count]], [[Kanji grade|Grade]], [[Halpern NJECD Index]], [[Kanji frequency|Frequency]], [[SKIP code]], [[Heisig index]], [[Gakken index]], [[S&H Kanji Dictionary descriptor]], [[O'Neill index]], Korean reading(s), [[Pinyin]] reading(s), [[S&H Kana & Kanji index]], [[New Nelson]], [[De Roo code]], [[Halpern KLD Index]], [[O'Neill's Essential Kanji Index]], [[Four Corner code]], [[Morohashi index]], [[Morohashi index|Morohashi vol.page]], [[Henshall index]], ON reading(s), KUN reading(s), Nanori reading(s), English meanings)

[http://www.zhongwen.com Zhongwen.com] - look for hierarchical position.