===Pronunciation===
*dămp, /dæmp/, /d{mp/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-æmp|Rhymes: -æmp]]

===Etymology===
Akin to Low German, Dutch, and Danish ''damp'' vapor, steam, fog, German ''[[dampf]]'', Icelandic ''[[dampi]]'', Swedish ''[[damb]]'' dust, and to Modern New German ''[[dimpfen]]'' to smoke, imperative ''dampf''. Also Old English ''[[dampen]]'' to choke, suffocate.

===Noun===
'''damp''' (''[[uncountabl]]'')

#Moisture; humidity; fog; fogginess; vapor.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Night . . . with black air Accompanied, with '''damps''' and dreadful gloom. - [[Milton]]
#Dejection; depression; cloud of the mind.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Even now, while thus I stand blest in thy presence, A secret '''damp''' of grief comes o'er my soul. - [[Addison]]
#:*It must have thrown a '''damp''' over your autumn excursion. - [[J. D. Forbes]]
#''(Mining):'' A gaseous product, formed in coal mines, old wells, pits, etc.

====Derived expressions====
*'''Choke damp''', a damp consisting principally of carboni acid gas; -- so called from its extinguishing flame and animal life. See [[Carbonic acid]], under [[Carbonic]].
*'''Damp sheet''', a curtain in a mine gallery to direct air currents and prevent accumulation of gas.
*'''Fire damp''', a damp consisting chiefly of light carbureted hydrogen; -- so called from its tendency to explode when mixed with atmospheric air and brought into contact with flame.

===Adjective===
'''damp''' ([[damper]], [[dampest]])

#Being in a state between dry and wet; moderately wet; moist; humid.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*O'erspread with a '''damp''' sweat and holy fear - [[Dryden]]
#''(Rare):'' Dejected; depressed; sunk
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*All these and more came flocking, but with looks Downcast and '''damp''' - [[Milton]]

===Intransitive verb===
Imperfect and past participle: '''damped'''<br>
Present participle: '''damping'''
#To render damp; to moisten; to make humid, or moderately wet; to dampen; as, to damp cloth.
#To put out, as fire; to depress or deject; to deaden; to cloud; to check or restrain, as action or vigor; to make dull; to weaken; to discourage. 
#To suppress vibrations (mechanical) or oscillations (electrical) by converting energy to heat.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*To '''damp''' your tender hopes - [[Akenside]]
#:*Usury dulls and '''damps''' all industries, improvements, and new inventions, wherein money would be stirring if it were not for this slug - [[Bacon]]
#:*How many a day has been '''damped''' and darkened by an angry word! - [[Sir J. Lubbock]]
#:*The failure of his enterprise '''damped''' the spirit of the soldiers. - [[Macaulay]]

====Translations====
*German: [[dampf]] 
*Icelandic: [[dampi]]
*Modern New German: [[dimpfen]]
*Old English: [[dampen]]
*Swedish: [[damb]]

----

==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''damp''' ''m''

#[[vapour]], [[vapor]]