{{wikibooks}}
{{wikipedia}}

==English==
===Etymology===
From Old French [[#Old French|dance]] ''(noun)'', [[dancer#Old French|dancer]] ''(verb)'' (modern [[danse]], [[danser]]), of unknown origin.

===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/dɑ:ns/}}
*{{audio|en-us-dance.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːns|-ɑːns]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A sequence of rhythmic steps or [[movement]]s performed to [[music]], for pleasure or as a form of social interaction.
# A social gathering where dancing is designed to take place.
# ''(heraldry)'' A [[fess]] that has been modified to [[zig-zag]] across the center of a [[coat of arms]] from [[dexter]] to [[sinister]].
# A genre of modern music characterised by sampled beats, repetitive rhythms and few lyrics.

====Translations====
'''movements to music'''
{{top}}
*Chinese: [[舞蹈]], [[跳舞]]
*Dutch: [[dans]]
*Finnish: [[tanssi]]
*French: [[danse]] {{f}}
*German: [[Tanz]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*[[Ido]] : [[danso]]
*Italian: [[ballo]] {{m}}, [[danza]] {{f}}
*Japanese: [[踊り]] (おどり), [[舞踊]] (ぶよう)
*Korean: [[춤]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[dans]] {{f}}, [[sema]] {{f}}, [[reqis]] {{f}}, [[dîlan]] {{f}}, [[govend]] {{f}}, [[dawet]] {{f}}
*Polish: [[taniec]] {{m}}
*Portuguese: [[dança]] {{f}}, [[baile]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[ples]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[baile]] {{m}}, [[danza]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[dans]]
*Urdu: [[رقص]] ,[[ناچ]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb|danc|ing}}

# ''(intransitive)'' To move with rhythmic steps or movements, especially in time to music.
#:''I danced with her all night long.''
# ''(intransitive)'' To leap or move rapidly with strong emotion.
#:''His eyes danced with pleasure as he spoke.''
# ''(transitive)'' To perform the steps to.
#:''Have you ever danced the tango?''

====Translations====
;move rhythmically to music
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[dansen]]
*Finnish: [[tanssia]]
*French : [[danser]]
*German: [[tanzen]]
{{mid}}
*[[Ido]] : [[dansar]]
*[[Irish]]: [[rinc]]
*[[Kurdish]]: [[reqisîn]], [[dans]] kirin, [[sema]] kirin
*Polish: [[tańczyć]]
*Portuguese: [[dançar]]
*Slovene: [[plesati]]
*Spanish: [[bailar]], [[danzar]]
*Swedish: [[dansa]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[dancer]]
*[[dirty dance]]
*[[St. Vitus' dance|St. Vitus’ dance]]

===See also===
*[[acrobatics]]
*[[ballet]]
*[[ballroom]] [[w:Ballroom|Wikipedia]]
*[[cha cha]] [[b:Cha cha|Wikibooks]]
*[[disco]] [[w:Disco|Wikipedia]]
*[[foxtrot]]
*[[hiphop]]
*[[jazz]] [[w:Jazz|Wikipedia]]
*[[modern]]
*[[musical theatre]]
*[[tap dancing]]

[[Category:Heraldic charges]]

[[es:dance]]
[[fa:dance]]
[[fr:dance]]
[[ko:dance]]
[[io:dance]]
[[it:dance]]
[[kk:dance]]
[[hu:dance]]
[[ja:dance]]
[[pl:dance]]
[[fi:dance]]
[[ta:dance]]
[[vi:dance]]
[[zh:dance]]