===Etymology===
Old English danger, ''[[daunger]]'', power, arrogance, refusal, difficulty, from Old French ''[[dagier]]'', ''[[dongier]]'' (with same meaning), French ''danger'' danger, from an assumed Late Latin ''[[dominiarium]]'' power, authority, from Latin ''[[dominium]]'' power, property. See ''[[dungeon]]'', ''[[domain]]'', ''[[dame]]''
===Noun===
'''danger'''

#''(Obsolete):'' Authority; jurisdiction; control
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*In '''danger''' had he . . . the young girls. - [[Chaucer]]
#''(Obsolete):'' Power to harm; subjection or liability to penalty. See In one's danger, below.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*You stand within his '''danger''', do you not? Shakespeare, ''Merchant of Venice, IV-i''
#:*Covetousness of gains hath brought [them] in '''danger''' of this statute. - [[Robynson (More's Utopia)]].
#Exposure to injury, loss, pain, or other evil; peril; risk; insecurity.
#''(Obsolete):'' Difficulty; sparingness. - [[Chaucer]]
#''(Obsolete):'' Coyness; disdainful behavior. - [[Chaucer]]

====Translations====
*Danish: [[fare]]
*Dutch: [[gevaar]] ''n'' (3)
*Finnish: [[vaara]] (3), [[uhka]] (3)
*French: danger ''m'' (3)
*German: [[Gefahr]] ''f'' (3)
*[[Ido]]: [[danjero]]
*Lithuanian: [[pavojus]] ''m'' (3)
*Spanish: [[peligro]] ''m'' (3)
*Swedish: [[fara]] ''c'' (3)

====Derived expressions====
*'''In one's danger''', ''(Obsolete):'' in one's power; liable to a penalty to be inflicted by him. This sense is retained in the proverb, Out of debt out of '''danger'''."
*:'''Quotations'''
*:*Those rich man in whose debt and '''danger''' they be not. - [[Robynson (More's Utopia)]]
*'''To do danger''', ''(Obsolete):'' to cause danger. - Shakespeare

====Synonyms====
*[[Peril]]; [[hazard]]; [[risk]]; [[jeopardy]] 
*'''Danger''' is the generic term, and implies some contingent evil in prospect. 
*'''Peril''' is instant or impending danger; as, in peril of one's life. 
*'''Hazard''' arises from something fortuitous or beyond our control; as, the hazard of the seas. 
*'''Risk''' is doubtful or uncertain danger, often incurred voluntarily; as, to risk an engagement. 
*'''Jeopardy''' is extreme danger. 
*'''Danger''' of a contagious disease; the '''perils''' of shipwreck; the '''hazards''' of speculation; the '''risk''' of daring enterprises; a life brought into '''jeopardy'''.

===Transitive verb===
'''to danger'''

#''(Obsolete)'': To endanger. - Shakespeare

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[in gevaar brengen]]
*German: [[gefährden]]

[[it:danger]]