==English==
===Etymology===
Old French dart, of German origin; compare Old High German ''[[tart]]'' javelin, dart, Anglo Saxon ''[[dara]]'', ''[[daro]]'', Swedish dart dagger, Icelandic ''[[darrar]]'' dart
===Noun===
'''dart''' (''plural'' '''darts''')
#A pointed missile weapon, intended to be thrown by the hand; a short lance; a javelin; hence, any sharp-pointed missile weapon, as an arrow.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*And he [Joab] took three '''darts''' in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom. - ''2nd Samuel 18:14''
#Anything resembling a dart; anything that pierces or wounds like a dart.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The artful inquiry, whose venomed '''dart''' Scarce wounds the hearing while it stabs the heart. - [[Hannan More]]
# a sudden or fast movement
# a fold that is stitched on a garment
#''(Obsolete):'' A spear set as a prize in running. - [[Geoffrey Chaucer]]
#''(Zoölogy):'' A fish; the dace. See [[dace]]. 
#''(in plural):'' a game of throwing darts at a target
====Translations====
'''a missile'''
*[[Lithuanian]]: [[smigis]] ''m'' 
*[[Spanish]]: [[dardo]] ''m'', [[dardos]] ''pl'.
'''a game'''
*[[French]]: fléchettes ''f, pl'' 
====Derived expressions====
*'''Dart sac''', ''(Zoölogy):'' a sac connected with the reproductive organs of land snails, which contains a dart, or arrowlike structure.
===Transitive verb===
'''dart''' ('''darts''' '''darted'''  '''darting''')
#To throw with a sudden effort or thrust, as a dart or other missile weapon; to hurl or launch.
#To throw suddenly or rapidly; to send forth; to emit; to shoot; as, the sun darts forth his beams.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Or what ill eyes malignant glances dart? - [[Alexander Pope]]
===Intransitive verb===
'''dart''' ('''darts''' '''darted'''  '''darting''')
#To fly or pass swiftly, as a dart; to move rapidly in one direction; to shoot out quickly
#To start and run with velocity; to shoot rapidly along; as, the deer darted from the thicket.
{{Webster}}
----
==Swedish==
===Noun===
;dart
#a [[game]] where the competitors throw small arrows against a circular target
#(''rare'') one of the small arrows in the game of [[darts]]

====Synonyms====
*[[pilkastning]] (1)
*[[pil]] (2)