==English==
{{wikipedia}}
===Etymology===
Unknown; sometimes considered to be a contraction of the title ''Dar''k Lord of the Si''th'', or a [[blend]] of ''[[dark]]'' and ''[[death]]''.  

Within the ''Star Wars'' universe it has been explained as a renaming after the eponymous Sith Lord [[w:Darth Andeddu|Darth Andeddu]].

===Noun===
'''Darth'''
# ''(Star Wars)'' A [[Sith]] Lord.  Used attributively, as a title: ''Darth Vader,'' or as a name directly.
# ''(archaic)'' Darth Vader.
# Also, by extension, for any frighteningly evil person, or one seen as directly responsible for distinctly negative events.
#: ''Because of their boss's lack of respect for them, the employees referred to him as "Darth Phil."''

===Quotations===
* '''1977:''' ''Star Wars''
*: Vader: Your powers are weak, old man.
*: Ben: You can't win, '''Darth'''.  If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.
* '''1999:''' David G Messerschmitt, ''Understanding Networked Applications'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=nEV9PLbs6McC&pg=PA400&lpg=PA400&sig=gr0e2pf5zwog__lIw6sXvdUa044]
*: Consider the threat of an evil hacker, '''Darth''', who can not only eavesdrop on your network connection but also alter the messages that are sent.  Decide whether '''Darth''' can successfully alter a confidential, encrypted message from Alice to Bob [...]
* '''2000:''' Antonio Mendez, ''The Master of Disguise'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=8I845o35ynsC&pg=PA186&lpg=PA186&sig=p2PBczxLUxUKDRxf8ZeGTQQpl-A]
*: “We need to put three round-eyes into that building along with the local landlord...in broad goddamned daylight,” “Schraider” said, glaring malevolently across his desk at me in the manner that had earned him the nickname “'''Darth'''” among his elite cadre of audio penetration officers.
* '''2002:''' ''Star Wars Episode II''
*: Obi-Wan: One more thing. Jango mentioned he was recruited by someone named '''Darth''' Tyranus. Any idea who that might be?
*: Yoda: With the forename '''Darth''', a Sith he must be.
* '''2005:''' John Illig, ''Pacific Dream'' [http://print.google.com/print?hl=en&id=iwP9LQMHz5EC&pg=PA74&lpg=PA74&sig=muOqMVvFCG2bI0S-EBQSTyfTt4o]
*: The evil '''Darth''' Leonard steals the formula and a young couple must get it back (real life Ward Leonard is a legendary recluse who has hiked the Appalachian Trail something like 20&ndash;30 times).
* '''2005:''' ''Star Wars Episode III''
*: Palpatine: Good. Good. The Force is strong with you. A powerful Sith you will become. Henceforth, you shall be known as '''Darth'''...Vader.

===See also===
*[[Darth Maul]]
*[[Darth Sidious]]
*[[Darth Vader]]
*[[Wookieepedia:Darth|Wookieepedia article]]

[[Category:Star Wars]]