==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[AHD]]: därthʹ vāʹdər
*[[IPA]]: /ˈdɑːɹθ ˈveɪ.dəɹ/

===Proper Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''[[Darth]] Vader'''

#A main character in George Lucas's movie, ''Star Wars.'' (41.9 [[BBY]] - 4 [[ABY]]) The Dark Lord of the [[Sith]] and brutal apprentice to [[Darth Sidious]].  In 19 BBY, [[Anakin Skywalker]] was dubbed Darth Vader when he turned to the dark side of the Force.

===Etymology===
'''Dar'''k Lord of the Si'''th''' forms Darth, Vader is the cut form of In'''vader''', sometimes connected to the Dutch word for [[father]]. Since the idea of Luke Skywalker being Vader's son came only while filming the ''Empire Strikes Back'', this Dutch-relation is an invalid speculation.

====Translations====
*[[Chinese]]: [[達斯·維達]] 
*[[French]]: [[Dark Vador]]
*[[Hebrew]]: [[דארת' ויידר]]
*[[Italian]]: [[Dart Fener]]
*[[Japanese]]: [[ダース・ヴェイダー]] (D&#257;su Veid&#257;)
*[[Russian]]: [[Дарт Вейдер]] (Dart Veider)

===Quotations===
*'''1977''': ''[[w:Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope|Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope]]''
**[[Leia Organa]]: "'''Darth Vader''', only you can be so bold."
**[[Obi-Wan Kenobi]]: "A young Jedi Knight named '''Darth Vader''', who was a pupil of mine, helped the Emperor hunt down and destroyed the Jedi Knights. He betrayed and murdered your father."   
*'''1983''': ''[[w:Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi|Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi]]''
**[[Obi-Wan Kenobi]] (postmortem): "Your father was seduced by the Dark Side. He ceased to be Anakin Skywalker and became '''Darth Vader'''.  When that happened, the good man that was your father was destroyed."
*'''2005:''' ''[[w:Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith|Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith]]''
**[[Palpatine]]: "Good. Good. The Force is strong with you. A powerful Sith you will become. Henceforth, you shall be known as '''Darth...Vader.'''"
**[[Yoda]]: "The boy you trained... gone he is... consumed by '''Darth Vader'''."

[[Category:Star Wars]]