{{wikipedia}}
==English==

{{rank|fixed|leaves|chair|853|date|summer|simply|terrible}}

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-date.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪt|-eɪt]]

===Etymology 1===
# Botany: French ''[[datte]]'', Latin ''[[dactylus]]'', from Greek, probably not the same word as finger, but of Semitic origin.

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#{{cattag|Botany}} The [[fruit]] of the [[date palm]].  This fruit is somewhat in the shape of an [[olive]], containing a soft pulp, sweet, esculent, and wholesome, and inclosing a hard kernel.
#{{cattag|Botany}} The [[date palm]] itself. 

====Translations====
'''fruit of the date palm'''
{{top}}
*Armenian: [[խուրմա]] (χurma)
*Bosnian: [[urma]] {{f}}
*[[Breton]]: [[datez]] ''collective noun'' [[datezenn]] ''singular f''
*Dutch: [[dadel]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[taateli]]
*French: [[datte]] {{f}}
*German: [[Dattel]]
*Italian: [[dattero]] {{m}}
*Japanese: [[ナツメヤシ]]の[[実]] (なつめやしのみ, natsumeyashi no mi)
{{mid}}
*Lithuanian: [[datulė]] {{f}}
*Polish: [[daktyl]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[curmală]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[финик]] (finik) {{m}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[урма]] {{f}}
*:Roman: [[urma]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[datelj]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[dátil]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[dadel]]
*Telugu: [[ఖర్జూరం]] (kharjooraM)
*Turkish: [[hurma]]
{{bottom}}

'''date palm'''
{{top}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
{{checktrans}}
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->

*{{ttbc|Belarusian}}: [[фінік]] (finik) {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Bulgarian}}: [[фурма]] (furma) {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[datle]]
*{{ttbc|Ukrainian}}: [[фінік]] (finik) {{m}}

====Derived terms====
* [[date palm]] or [[date tree]] ''(Botany):'' the genus of palms which bear dates, of which common species is ''[[Phoenix dactylifera]]''
* [[date plum]] ''(Botany):'' the fruit of several species of ''[[Diospyros]]'', including the American and Japanese [[persimmon]]s, and the European [[lotus]] (''[[Diospyros lotus]]'')
* [[date shell]] or [[date fish]] ''(Zoölogy):'' a bivalve shell, or its inhabitant, of the genus ''[[Pholas]]'', and allied genera. See ''Pholas''.

===Etymology 2===
# French ''date'', Late Latin ''[[data]]'', from Latin ''[[datus]]'' given, past participle of ''[[dare]]'' to give; akin to Greek, Old Slavonic ''[[dati]]'', Sanskrit ''[[d&#257;]]''. Compare [[datum]], [[dose]], [[Dato]], [[Die]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc., which specifies the time (as day, month, and year) when the writing or inscription was given, or executed, or made; as, the '''date''' of a letter, of a will, of a deed, of a coin, etc.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*And bonds without a '''date''', they say, are void. - [[Dryden]]
#:'''Derived expressions'''
#:*'''To bear date''', to have the date named on the face of it; -- said of a writing
#The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place, or is appointed to take place; a given point of time; epoch; as, the '''date''' of a battle.  A specific day.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*He at once, Down the long series of eventful time, So fixed the '''dates''' of being, so disposed To every living soul of every kind The field of motion, and the hour of rest. - [[Akenside]]
#A point in time, as in ''You may need that at a later date.''
#{{rare}} Assigned end; conclusion.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*What Time would spare, from Steel receives its '''date'''. - [[Pope]]
#{{obsolete}} Given or assigned length of life; dyration.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Good luck prolonged hath thy '''date'''. - [[Spenser]]
#:*Through his life's whole '''date'''. - [[Chapman]]
#A pre-arranged social meeting
#A companion when one is partaking in a social occasion.
# {{cattag|Australian slang}} [[anus]].

====Translations====

'''That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Datum]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[datum]] {{m}}
*[[Breton]]: [[deiziad]] {{m}}, deiziadoù {{p}}
*Dutch: [[datum]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[päiväys]], [[päivämäärä]]
*French: date {{f}}
*German: [[Datum]] {{f}}, [[Zeitpunkt]] {{m}}
*Indonesian: [[tanggal]]
*Japanese: [[日付]] (ひづけ, hitzuke)
{{mid}}
*Polish: [[data]] {{f}}
*Romanian: [[dată]] {{f}}
*Serbian:
*:Cyrillic: [[датум]] {{m}}
*:Roman: [[datum]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[datum]] {{m}}
*Telugu: [[తేది]] (taedi)
{{bottom}}

'''A point in time'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ajankohta]]
*German: [[Zeitpunkt]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Assigned end; conclusion'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Ende]] {{n}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''Obsolete: Given or assigned length of life'''
{{top}}
*German: [[Zeit]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''A pre-arranged social meeting'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[emgav]] {{m}}, emgavioù {{p}}
*Dutch: [[afspraakje]] {{n}}, [[afspraak]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[tapaaminen]], [[treffit]] ''(the latter only a romantic meeting)''
*French: [[rendez-vous]] {{m}}
*German: [[Treffen]] {{n}}, [[Verabredung]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Indonesian: [[kencan]]
*Japanese: [[デート]] (deeto)
{{bottom}}

'''A companion when one is partaking in a social occasion'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[seuralainen]]
*German: [[Partner]] {{m}}, [[Partnerin]] {{f}}, [[Verabredung]] {{f}} ''(colloquial, arbitrary gender)''
{{mid}}
*Romanian: [[întâlnire]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive verb===
{{en-verb|dat|ing}}

#To note the time of writing or executing; to express in an instrument the time of its execution; as, to '''date''' a letter, a bond, a deed, or a charter
#To note or fix the time of, as of an event; to give the date of; as, to '''date''' the building of the pyramids
#:'''Note''': We may say '''dated at''' or '''from''' a place.
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The letter is '''dated at''' Philadephia. - [[G. T. Curtis]]
#:*You will be surprised, I don't question, to find among your correspondencies in foreign parts, a letter '''dated from''' Blois. - [[Addison]]
#:*In the countries of his jornal seems to have been written; parts of it are '''dated from''' them. - [[M. Arnold]]
#To determine the age of something
#To take (someone) on a series of dates

====Translations====
'''To note the time of writing or executing'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[päivätä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To note or fix the time of, as of an event'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''To determine the age of something'''
{{top}}
*[[Breton]]: [[deiziañ]]
*Dutch: [[dateren]]
*Finnish: [[ajoittaa]], [[määrittää]] [[ikä]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[dater]]
*German: [[datieren]]
*Romanian:[[data]]
{{bottom}}

'''To take (someone) on a series of dates'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[daten]]
*German: [[ausgehen]], [[daten]]
*Finnish: [[seurustella]], [[tapailla]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive Verb===
{{en-verb|dat|ing}}

#To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with '''from'''
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*The Batavian republic '''dates''' from the successes of the French arms. - [[E. Everett]]

====Translations====
'''To begin'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[dateren]] (with '''van''' or '''uit''')
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Fruits]]
[[Category:Calendar terms]]

[[et:date]]
[[fa:date]]
[[fr:date]]
[[io:date]]
[[it:date]]
[[hu:date]]
[[ja:date]]
[[pl:date]]
[[pt:date]]
[[ru:date]]
[[fi:date]]
[[ta:date]]
[[vi:date]]
[[zh:date]]