==English==

{{rank|def|might|being|114|day|through|himself|go}}

===Etymology===
Via Middle English from Old English ''[[dæġ]]'' < Proto-Germanic '''[[*dagaz]]''' < Proto-Indo-European '''[[*dhegh-]]''' (to burn). Not related to Latin '''dies''' (which is from PIE base '''[[*dyeu-]]''' [to shine]), but rather to Sanskrit '''dāhas''' (heat), which came from PIE '''[[*dhegh-]]''' (to burn). Cognates include Swedish [[dag]] and German [[Tag]] (day).

===Pronunciation===
* {{AHD|dā}}
* {{IPA|/deɪ/}}
* {{SAMPA|/deI/}}
* Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-eɪ|-eɪ]]
* {{audio|en-us-day.ogg|Audio (US)}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# A period of 24 [[hour]]s.
# The period from [[midnight]] to the following [[midnight]]. There are 7 days in a week: [[Sunday]], [[Monday]], [[Tuesday]], [[Wednesday]], [[Thursday]], [[Friday]], and [[Saturday]].
# Rotational period of a planet (especially [[earth]]).
# The part of a day(3) which one spends at one’s job, school, etc. The meaning of "I worked two days last week" is not the same as "I worked 48 hours last week." With hours, you count only the hours you spend working. With days, if you work a full shift, you count it as a day.
# Period of day<sup>3</sup> between sunrise and sunset where one enjoys daylight. Daytime. Re: "day and night".

====Derived terms====
*[[daily]]
*[[daybreak]]
*[[daydream]]
*[[daylight]]
*[[day return]]
*[[daystar]]
*[[daytime]]
*[[day trip]]
*[[day boarder]]
*[[day bed]]
*[[save the day]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[ditë]] {{f}}
*Afrikaans: [[dag]]
*Arabic: {{ARchar|[[يوم|يَوْمٌ]]}} (yaum) {{m}}, {{ARchar|[[ايام|أيّامٌ]]}} (’ayyām) {{p}}
*Armenian: [[օր]] (or)
*Breton: [[deiz]] {{m}}, [[deiz]]ioù {{p}}; [[devezh]] {{m}}, [[devezh]]ioù {{p}}
*Bulgarian: [[ден]] (den) {{m}}
*Catalan: [[dia]] {{m}} [[:ca:dia|^]], [[jorn]] {{m}}
*Chinese: [[天]] (tiān), [[日]] (rì), [[辰]] (chén), [[日子]] (rì-zi)
*Croatian: [[dan#Croatian|dan]] {{m}}
*Czech: [[den]] {{m}}
*Danish: [[døgn]] (1, 3), [[dag]] (2,4,5)
*Dutch: [[dag]] {{m}} (1,2,3,4,5), [[etmaal]] {{n}} (1,3)
*Esperanto: [[tago]]
*Estonian: [[päev]], [[ööpäev]] (1)
*Finnish: [[päivä]] (1,2,3,4,5), [[vuorokausi]] (1,3)
*French: [[jour]] {{m}}
*[[Frisian]]: [[dei]]
*German: [[Tag#German|Tag]]  (1,2,3,4,5) {{m}}, [[Tage]] {{p}} [[:de:Tag|^]]
*Greek: [[ημέρα]] (also [[μέρα]]) ([i]méra) (1,2,3,4,5) {{f}}, [[ημερονύχτιο]] (imeroníkhtio) {{n}} (1,2), [[εικοσιτετράωρο]] (ikositetráoro) {{n}} (1,3)
*[[Guaraní]]: [[ára]]
*Hawaiian: [[lā]], [[ao]]
*Hebrew: [[יום]] (yôm) {{m}}
*Hungarian: [[nap#Hungarian|nap]]
*Icelandic: [[dagur]]
*[[Ido]]: [[dio]]
*Ilocano: [[aldaw]]
*Indonesian: [[hari]] (1,2)
*Irish: [[lá]]
*Italian: [[giorno]] {{m}}, [[di]] {{m}}
*[[Interlingua]]: [[die]]
*Japanese: [[日]] ([[ひ]], hi / [[にち]], nichí) (1); [[曜日]] ([[ようび]], yōbi) (2); [[昼]] ([[ひる]], hirú), [[昼間]] ([[ひるま]], hirumá), [[日中]] ([[にっちゅう]], nítchū)
*Korean: [[일]] (il), [[날]] (nal), [[하루]] (haru)
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: [[roj]]
*[[Lakota]]: [[ãpetu]]
*Latin: [[dies]]{{mf}} ([[diei]])
*Lithuanian: [[diena]]
*Latvian [[diena]] {{f}}
*[[Lojban]]: [[djedi]] (1,2), [[donri]] (3)
*Malay: [[hari]]
*Maltese: [[jum]]
*Maori: [[raa]], [[ao]]
*Norwegian: [[døgn]] (1, 3), [[dag]] (2,4,5)
*[[Ojibwe]]: [[giizhig]], [[giizhigoon]] {{p}}
*Old English: [[dæg|dæġ]] {{m}}, [[dogor|dōgor]] {{n}}
*Persian: {{FAchar|[[روز]]}} (rūz)
*Polish: [[dzień]] {{m}} (1,2,3,4,5), [[doba]] {{f}} (1,3)
*Portuguese: [[dia]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[zi]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[день]] (den’) {{m}} (1,2,3,4), [[сутки]] (sútki) {{p}} (1,2,3)
*Sardinian (Campidanese): [[di]] {{mf}}
*Sardinian (Nugorese): [[díe]] {{mf}}
*Scottish Gaelic: [[latha]]
*Serbian: [[дан]] ([[dan#Serbian|dan]]) {{m}}
*Slovak: [[deň]] {{m}}
*Slovene: [[dan#Slovene|dan]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[día]] {{m}}
*Swahili: [[siku]]
*Swedish: [[dag]] {{c}} (1,2,3,4,5), [[dygn]] (1,3)
*Tagalog: [[araw]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[రోజు]] (rōǧu), [[దినము]] (dinamu) (1,2,3,4), [[పగలు]] (pagalu) (5)
*Thai: {{THchar|[[วัน]]}} (wân), {{THchar|[[ทิพ]]}} (thip), {{THchar|[[วาร]]}} (wān)
*[[Tok Pisin]]: [[de#Tok Pisin|de]] (1,2,3,4,5)
*[[Tupinambá]]: [['ara]]
*Turkish: [[gün]] (1,2,3,4,5), [[gündüz]] (5)
*Ukrainian: [[день]] (den’) {{m}}
*Welsh: [[dydd]]
*[[Wolof]]: [[bés]]
*Yiddish: [[טאָג|טאג]] (tog)
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
{{en-adj|-}}
<!--"Day" is NEVER an adjective, it is always a noun.-->

#Occurring during daylight hours. ''E.g.'', "Don’t give up your day job."; "She works the day shift."
<!--NOTE: These are not adjectives at all, but noun used as modifiers. It's just like German "Herzbube" (knave of hearts) versus "herzlicher Bube" (hearty knave). The adjectives for "day" are "diurnal," "daily," etc.-->

----

==Scots==
===Etymology===
Old English ''[[dæg|dæġ]]''.

===Noun===
'''day'''

# [[#English|day]]
# (''definite singular'') [[today]]
#:''A'm sorry, A've no seen Angus '''the day'''.''  I'm sorry, I haven't seen Angus today.

[[Category:Scots nouns]]
[[Category:200 English basic words]]
[[Category:Time]]

[[ang:day]]
[[ar:day]]
[[de:day]]
[[et:day]]
[[el:day]]
[[fa:day]]
[[fr:day]]
[[ko:day]]
[[hy:day]]
[[io:day]]
[[id:day]]
[[it:day]]
[[la:day]]
[[hu:day]]
[[nl:day]]
[[ja:day]]
[[pl:day]]
[[pt:day]]
[[ru:day]]
[[simple:day]]
[[sr:day]]
[[fi:day]]
[[sv:day]]
[[ta:day]]
[[vi:day]]
[[uk:day]]
[[zh:day]]