==English==

===Noun===
(de•lict)<br>
(''plural'' de•licts)<br>
An offense or transgression against law; an offense of a lesser degree; a misdemeanor.
Wrong done to somebody; in civil and criminal law, a wrong or injury done to somebody.<br>
[[Delict]] is the civil law equivalent of the common-law [[tort]].
The act by which one person, by fraud or malignity, causes some [[damage]] or [[tort]] to some other. In its most enlarged sense, it includes all kinds of crimes and misdemeanors; even the injury caused by another, either voluntarily or accidentally without evil intention. However, delicts are more commonly understood as small offences which are punished by a small fine or a short imprisonment.<br>
Delicts are either public or private: The public are those which affect the whole community by their hurtful consequences; The private is that which is directly injurious to a private individual.<br>
A quasi-delict is the act of a person, who without malignity, but with inexcusable imprudence, causes an injury to another.<br>
# ''Law'' - a misdemeanor or offense. 
# ''Roman and Civil Law'' - a civil wrong permitting compensation.
#: ''Every regulation of the civil code necessarily implies a '''delict''' in the event of its violation.'' ('''Jeffrey''')

====Synonyms====

====Antonyms====

====Forms====
* [[delinquent]]

====Origin====
Early 16th century.
Latin ''delictum'' fault, from neuter of ''delictus'', past participle of ''delinquere''.

[[it:delict]]
[[Category: English nouns]]