==English==

===Proper noun===
'''Denise'''
# a female [[given name]], the feminine form of [[Dennis]]  Name used in Dutch, English, Greek and French. Its source is Dionysius (Dionysus), a male Greek name meaning "Dedicated to Dionysus". Dionysus is the mythological Greek god of wine responsible for growth of the vines and the originator of winemaking.

[[Category:Female given names]]

[[it:Denise]]
[[sr:Denise]]
The girl's name Denise is pronounced de-NEES. It is of French origin, and its meaning is "follower of Dionysius." Feminine form of Dennis, from the Greek name Dionysius. There is an ancient Latin form of the name, Dionysia, but this variant dates back only to the 1920s. Actress Denise Richards.

Denise has 22 variant forms: Deneigh, Denese, Dennet, Dennette, Deney, Deni, Denice, Deniece, Denisa, Denissa, Denisse, Denize, Denni, Dennie, Denisse, Dennise, Denny, Denyce, Denys, Denyse, Dinnie and Dinny.

Search for names similar to Denise starting with De-, Den-, Deni-, Denis- or ending with -se, -ise, -nise, -enise.

Denise is a very popular female first name, ranking 74 out of 4275 for females of all ages in the 1990 U.S. Census. Denise is a very popular surname, ranking 23113 out of 88799 for people of all ages in the 1990 U.S. Census.

Displayed below is the popularity trend for the girl's name Denise as a birth name for newborn babies. Click here to compare Denise with its variants.

United States Top 1000 rankings for: Denise
Canada (BC), England and Wales, Ireland, Scotland, Sweden, Australia (NSW) Top 100 rankings for: Denise

From thinkbabynames.com