==English==

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-deposit.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɒzɪt|-ɒzɪt]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#Sediment or rock that is not native to its present location or is different from the surrounding material.  Sometimes refers to [[ore]] or [[gem]]s.
#asset that was left to the care of the other <!--this definition could use so much improvement, I'm not sure what it means-->
#Money placed in an account.
#The act of placing money into an account.
#Anything left behind on a surface.
#:''a mineral '''deposit'''''
#:''a '''deposit''' of seaweed on the shore''
#A sum of money or other asset given as an initial payment, to show good faith, or to reserve something for purchase.
#:''They put a '''deposit''' on the apartment.''

====Translations====
;Sediment or rock different from the surrounding material (1)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afzetting]] {{f}}, [[neerzetting]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[esiintymä]]
*French: [[dépôt]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Interlingua: [[deposito]]
*Portuguese: [[depósito]] {{m}}
*Romanian: [[depozit]] {{n}}, [[depunere]] {{f}}
{{bottom}}

;asset that was left to the care of the other (2)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[storting]] {{f}}
*Finnish: [[talletus]], [[pano]]
*French: [[dépôt]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Interlingua: [[deposito]]
*Portuguese: [[depósito]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[sedimento]], gajo-pekunio

*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[depósito]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# {{transitive}} To leave or adhere one material or item onto another.
#:''He '''deposited''' his gum on the bottom of the table.''
# To entrust one's [[asset]]s to the care of another.  Sometimes done as [[collateral]].
#{{transitive]} To put money or funds into an account.

====Translations====
;Settlement of one material onto another (1)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[afzetten]], [[neerzetten]]
*French: [[déposer]]
*Interlingua: [[depositar]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[depositar]]
*Romanian: [[a depozita]]
{{bottom}}

;Entrusting one's assets to the care of another (2)
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[storten]]
*Finnish: [[tallettaa]]
*French: [[déposer]]
{{mid}}
*Interlingua: [[depositar]]
*Portuguese: [[depositar]]
*Romanian: [[a lăsa în îngrijire]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[a depune]]

===Anagrams===
*[[posited]]

===Antonym===
*[[withdrawal]]

[[ar:deposit]]
[[fr:deposit]]
[[io:deposit]]
[[it:deposit]]
[[kk:deposit]]
[[hu:deposit]]
[[ru:deposit]]
[[ta:deposit]]
[[vi:deposit]]
[[zh:deposit]]