==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===

From [[w:French language|French]][[category:French derivations]] [[descendre]], [[w:Latin|Latin]][[Category:Latin derivations]] [[descendere]], [[descensum]]; [[de-]] + [[scandere]] (meaning ''to climb''). See [[scan]].

===Antonyms===
*[[ascend]]

===Intransitive Verb===
'''to descend''' ('''Descended''', '''Descending'''
#To pass from a higher to a lower place; to move downwards; to come or go down in any way, as by falling, flowing, walking, etc.; to plunge; to fall; to [[incline]] downward
#:''The rain descended, and the floods came.'' [[Matthew]] vii. 25.
#:''We will here descend to matters of later date.'' [[Fuller]].
#To enter mentally; to retire. [Poetic] 
#:''[He] with holiest meditations fed, Into himself descended.'' [[Milton]].
#To make an attack, or incursion, as if from a vantage ground; to come suddenly and with violence; -- with [[on]] or [[upon]]. 
#:''And on the suitors let thy wrath descend.'' [[Pope]].
#To come down to a lower, less fortunate, humbler, less virtuous, or worse, state or station; to lower or abase one's self; as, he descended from his high estate. 
#To pass from the more general or important to the particular or less important matters to be considered. 
#To come down, as from a source, original, or stock; to be derived; to proceed by generation or by transmission; to fall or pass by inheritance; as, the beggar may descend from a prince; a crown descends to the heir. 
#(Anat.) To move toward the south, or to the southward. 
#(Mus.) To fall in pitch; to pass from a higher to a lower tone.

===Transitive Verb===
'''to descend'''
#To go down upon or along; to pass from a higher to a lower part of; as, they descended the river in boats; to descend a ladder. 
#:''But never tears his cheek descended.'' Byron.

===See also===
*[[descent]]
*[[descender]]
 



<!-- from Webster
 [F. descendre, L. descendere, descensum; de- + scandere to climb. See Scan.] 

1. To pass from a higher to a lower place; to move downwards; to come or go down in any way, as by falling, flowing, walking, etc.; to plunge; to fall; to incline downward; -- the opposite of ascend. 

The rain descended, and the floods came. Matt. vii. 25.
We will here descend to matters of later date. Fuller.
2. To enter mentally; to retire. [Poetic] 

[He] with holiest meditations fed, Into himself descended. Milton.
3. To make an attack, or incursion, as if from a vantage ground; to come suddenly and with violence; -- with on or upon. 

And on the suitors let thy wrath descend. Pope.
4. To come down to a lower, less fortunate, humbler, less virtuous, or worse, state or station; to lower or abase one's self; as, he descended from his high estate. 

5. To pass from the more general or important to the particular or less important matters to be considered. 

6. To come down, as from a source, original, or stock; to be derived; to proceed by generation or by transmission; to fall or pass by inheritance; as, the beggar may descend from a prince; a crown descends to the heir. 

7. (Anat.) To move toward the south, or to the southward. 

8. (Mus.) To fall in pitch; to pass from a higher to a lower tone. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Descend (Page: 396)
De*scend" (?), v. t. To go down upon or along; to pass from a higher to a lower part of; as, they descended the river in boats; to descend a ladder. 

But never tears his cheek descended. Byron.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Displaying 1 result(s) from the 1828 edition:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
DESCEND, v.i. [L. To climb.]


1. To move or pass from a higher to a lower place; to move, come or go downwards; to fall; to sink; to run or flow down; applicable to any kind of motion or of body. We descend on the feet, on wheels, or by falling. A torrent descends from a mountain.

The rains descended, and the floods came. Matt. 7.

2. To go down, or to enter.

He shall descend into battle and perish. Sam. 26.

3. To come suddenly; to fall violently.

And on the suitors let thy wrath descend.

4. To go in; to enter.

He, with honest meditations fed, into himself descended.

5. To rush; to invade, as an enemy.

The Grecian fleet descending on the town.

6. To proceed from a source or original; to be derived. The beggar may descend from a prince, and the prince, from a beggar.

7. To proceed, as from father to son; to pass from a preceding possessor, in the order of lineage, or according to the laws of succession or inheritance. Thus, an inheritance descends to the son or next of kin; a crown descends to the heir.

8. To pass from general to particular considerations; as, having explained the general subject, we will descend to particulars.

9. To come down from an elevated or honorable station; in a figurative sense. Flavius is an honorable man; he cannot descend to acts of meanness.

10. In music, to fall in sound; to pass from any note to another less acute or shrill, or from sharp to flat.
DESCEND, v.t. To walk, move or pass downwards on a declivity; as, to descend a hill; to descend an inclined plain. [But this may be considered as elliptical; on or along being understood.]
-->

[[it:descend]]