==English==

===Pronunciation===
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aɪs|-aɪs]]

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# That which is [[devise]]d, or formed by [[design]]; a [[contrivance]]; an [[invention]]; a [[project]]; a [[scheme]]; often, a scheme to deceive; a stratagem; an [[artifice]].
#:''His '''device''' in against Babylon, to destroy it.'' --Jer. li. 11.
#:''Their recent '''device''' of demanding benevolences.'' --Hallam.
#:''He disappointeth the '''devices''' of the crafty.'' --Job v. 12.
# Power of [[devising]]; invention; contrivance.
#:''I must have [[instrument]]s of my own '''device'''''. --Landor.
#An emblematic design, generally consisting of one or more figures with a motto, used apart from heraldic bearings to denote the historical situation, the ambition, or the desire of the person adopting it. See [[cognizance]].
#:a [[motto]], [[emblem]], or other mark used by [[Knights-errant]] to distinguish themselves from others. If a motto affixed to the arms, it usually had some punning allusion to his name. A device differed from a [[badge]] or cognizance primarily because as it was a personal distinction, and not a badge borne by members of the same house successively.
#Improperly, an heraldic [[bearing]].
#:''Knights-errant used to distinguish themselves by '''devices''' on their shields.'' --Addison.
#:''A banner with this strange '''device''''' - ''Excelsior''. --Longfellow.
# Anything fancifully conceived. --Shak.
# {{obsolete}} A spectacle or [[show]]. --Beau. & Fl.
# {{obsolete}} Opinion; decision. --Rom. of R.
# A piece of equipment.   See also [[appliance]].
#:''There are a number of household '''devices''' in a kitchen such as a [[dishwasher]], a [[garbage disposal]], or an electric can opener, etc.''
# (Computers) Equipment which forms part of a computer system, such as a [[hard drive]], a [[printer]], or a [[video card]].
# (legal) An image used in whole or part as a [[trademark]] or service mark.

====Usage notes====
Device, [[contrivance]]. Device implies more of inventive power, and contrivance more of skill and dexterity in execution. A device usually has reference to something worked out for exhibition or show; a contrivance usually respects the arrangement or disposition of things with reference to securing some end. Devices were worn by knights-errant on their shields; contrivances are generally used to promote the practical convenience of life. The word device is often used in a bad sense; as, a crafty device; contrivance is almost always used in a good sense; as, a useful contrivance.

====Synonyms====
*[[contrivance]]
*[[design]]
*[[invention]]
*[[project]]
*[[scheme]]
*[[shift]]
*[[stratagem]]
*[[equipment]]
*[[appliance]]

====Derived terms====
*[[intrauterine device]]
*(computers) [[device driver]]

====Translations====
*Dutch: [[toestel]] {{n}}
*Finnish: [[juoni]] (1), [[suunnitelma]] (1), [[laite]] (3)
*German: [[Gerät]] {{n}} (1)
*Norwegian: [[innretning]]
*Portuguese: [[aparelho]] {{m}}, [[dispositivo]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[dispositivo]] {{m}} (1)

[[ar:device]]
[[fr:device]]
[[io:device]]
[[it:device]]
[[pl:device]]
[[pt:device]]
[[ru:device]]
[[fi:device]]
[[vi:device]]
[[zh:device]]