==English==

<!-- -->

<!-- -->
===Noun===
'''{{Diagnostic Drawing Series}}'''
# <!-- 
The Diagnostic Drawing Series (DDS) is a three-picture art interview developed in 1982 by art therapists Barry M. Cohen and Barbara Lesowitz. The DDS Rating Guide (Cohen, 1986/1994) provides clearly defined and illustrated criteria that highlight the structure, not the content, of the drawings.  First presented in 1983 as a pilot study at the annual American Art Therapy Association conference, the DDS was granted the Research Award by the association that same year for its multicenter collaborative design. The DDS was the first art therapy assessment for adults to be systematically correlated with the nomenclature of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) through research.

The DDS is one of the best-known and more commonly taught art therapy assessments (Hall & Knapp, 1993; Mills & Goodwin, 1991; Mills, 1995; Smitheman-Brown, 1998). It first entered the published literature in 1985, when the Handbook was made widely available and the test itself was profiled in the American Psychological Association's newletter, Monitor.  More than 50 DDS studies have been completed to date; most norm different DSM diagnostic groups (DDS Resource List, Mills, 2006).  

The above was excerpted with permission from Report on the Diagnostic Drawing Series, October 2000 (Cohen & Mills).

For more information, contact The DDS Project, P.O. Box 9853, Alexandria, Virginia, 22304 USA.  -->