==English==

===Pronunciation===
*dī'əmənd, /ˈdaɪəmənd/, /<tt>"daI@m@nd</tt>/
*dī'mənd, /ˈdaɪmənd/, /<tt>"daIm@nd</tt>/

===Etymology===
[[Category:Greek derivations]]
From Old French [[diamant]], from Late Latin [[diamas]], from Latinised Greek [[adamantinus]] "hard as steel", from [[Ancient Greek]] '''[[αδαμάντινος]]''' (''adamantinos'') "hard as steel, hard, unbreakable", from '''[[αδάμας]]''' (''adamas'') "untamed, unconquerable, unbreakable, diamond (as a refer to the toughness of the gem)", from 
'''[[α-]]''' "un-, not" + 
'''[[δαμάζω]]''' (''damazo'') "to overpower, to tame, to brake in, to subdue, to conquer".

===Noun===
'''diamond''' (''[[countable]] and [[uncountable]]; plural''  '''[[diamonds]]''')

#(''uncountable'') A [[glimmer]]ing glass-like [[mineral]] that is an [[allotrope]] of [[carbon]] in which each atom is surrounded by four others in the form of a [[tetrahedron]].
#:''The saw is coated with '''diamond'''.''
#A [[gemstone]] made from this mineral.
#:''The dozen loose '''diamonds''' sparkled in the light.''
#A ring containing a diamond.
#: ''What a beautiful engagement '''diamond'''.''
#A very pale blue color/colour.
#Something that resembles a diamond.
#{{geometry}} A [[rhombus]], especially when oriented so that its longer axis is vertical.
#{{geometry}} The [[polyiamond]] made up of two triangles.
#{{baseball}} The entire field of play used in the game.
#{{baseball}} The [[infield]] of a baseball field.
#: ''The teams met on the '''diamond'''.''
#(''card games'') A card of the diamonds suit.
#:''I have only one diamond in my hand.''
#(''card games'') (''plural'': '''diamonds''') One of the four [[suit]]s of [[playing card]]s.
#:''I have the eight of '''diamonds''' in my hand.''

====Synonyms====
*(''gemstone''): [[sparkler]] (''informal'')
*(''ring''): [[diamond ring]]
*(''something that resembles a diamond''): [[adamant]]
*(''geometry: rhombus''): [[lozenge]], [[rhomb]], [[rhombus]]
*(''geometry: polyiamond''): [[2-iamond]]
*(''baseball: entire baseball field''): [[ball field]], [[baseball field]]
*(''baseball: infield of a baseball field''): [[baseball diamond]], [[infield]]

====Antonyms====
*(''baseball: infield of a baseball field''): [[outfield]]

====Derived terms====
*[[baseball diamond]]
*[[black diamond]]
*[[diamond anniversary]]
*[[diamond geezer]]<!--UK slang-->
*[[diamond jubilee]]
*[[diamond-shaped]]
*[[diamond wedding]]
*[[rough diamond]]

====Related terms====
*[[diamante]]

====Translations====

'''uncountable: mineral'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[timantti]]
*French: [[diamant]] ''m''
*Greek: [[αδάμας]] [aˈðamas] ''m''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[diamante]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[diamante#Portuguese|diamante]]
*Russian: [[алмаз]] (almáz) ''m''
*Telugu: [[వజ్రం]] (vajraM)
{{bottom}}

'''gemstone'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[timantti]]
*French: [[diamant]] ''m''
*German: [[Diamant]] ''m''
*Greek: [[διαμάντι]] [ðʝaˈma(n)di] ''n''
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[diamante#Italian|diamante]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[diamante#Spanish|diamante]] ''m''
*Portuguese: [[diamante#Portuguese|diamante]]
*Russian: [[алмаз]] (almáz) ''m'', [[бриллиант]] (brilliánt) ''m''
*Swedish:  [[brilliant]] {{c}}, [[diamant]] {{c}}
*Telugu: [[వజ్రం]] (vajraM)
{{bottom}}

'''ring'''
:''See'' '''[[diamond ring]]'''

'''something that resembles a diamond'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[diamant]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''very pale blue color/colour'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[hailakansininen]], [[hyvin]] [[vaalea]]n [[sininen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''geometry: rhombus'''
:''See'' '''[[rhombus]]'''

'''geometry: polyiamond'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''baseball: entire baseball field'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[baseballkenttä]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[basebollplan]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''baseball: infield of a baseball field'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[baseball]]in [[sisäkenttä]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[diamond#Swedish|diamond]] {{c}}, [[innerplan]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''card games: card of the diamonds suit'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ruutu]]
*French: [[carreau]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[ouros]] ''pl.''
*Russian: [[бубна]] (búbna) ''f''
*Swedish: [[ruter]] {{c}}, [[ruterkort]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''card games: ''plural'': one of the four suits of playing cards'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[ruutu]]
*French: [[carreau]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[ouros]] ''pl.''
*Russian: [[бубны]] (búbny) ''f''
*Swedish: [[ruter]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be checked=====
<!--Remove this section once all of the translations below have been moved into the tables above.-->
{{checktrans}}

*{{ttbc|Chinese}}: [[金刚石]] (jīngāngshí)
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[Gyemant]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[ダイアモンド]] (daiamondo)
*{{ttbc|Latin}}: [[diamantis]]

===Adjective===
'''diamond''' (''plural'' '''diamonds''')
#made of, or containing diamond, a diamond or diamonds.
#:''He gave her '''diamond''' earrings.''
#of, relating to, or being a sixtieth anniversary.
#:''Today is their '''diamond''' wedding anniversary.''
#of, relating to, or being a seventy-fifth anniversary.
#:''Today is their '''diamond''' wedding anniversary.''

====Translations====
'''made of, or containing diamond'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[diamant]]-
{{bottom}}

'''of, relating to, or being a sixtieth anniversary'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[60-år]]s-
{{bottom}}

'''of, relating to, or being a seventy-fifth anniversary'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[75-år]]s-
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''diamond'''
#to adorn with or as if with diamonds

====Translations====
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[diamantbelägga]]
{{bottom}}

===See also===
*[[w:diamond|Wikipedia article on diamonds]]

[[Category:Birthstones]]
[[Category:Card games]]
[[Category:Gems]]

[[de:diamond]]
[[fr:diamond]]
[[ko:diamond]]
[[io:diamond]]
[[it:diamond]]
[[hu:diamond]]
[[pl:diamond]]
[[ro:diamond]]
[[fi:diamond]]
[[ta:diamond]]
[[zh:diamond]]