==English==
===Etymology 1===
Middle English from Old Norse ''deyja''
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: dī
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /daɪ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /daI/
===Verb (usually intransitive)===
Past tense and participle: died; Present participle: dying
#To stop living. To turn dead. To undergo [[death]].
#:'''Translations'''
#:*Breton: [[mervel]] ''radical'' marv-
#:*Chinese Characters: [[死]]
#:*Chinese: [[死]]
#:*Czech: [[umřít]]
#:*Dutch: [[doodgaan]], [[sterven]]
#:*Esperanto: [[morti]]
#:*Finnish: [[kuolla]]
#:*French: [[mourir]]
#:*Frisian]]: [[deagean]], [[ferstjerre]], [[stjerre]]
#:*German: [[sterben]]
#:*Guaraní: [[mano]]/[[e'õ]] (t-)
#:*Hebrew: [[למות]]
#:*Interlingua: [[morir]]
#:*Japanese: [[死ぬ]] (しぬ;shinu)
#:*Korean: [[죽다]] (jukda)
#:*Latin: [[mori]]
#:*Portuguese: [[morrer]]
#:*Polish: [[umierać]] ''imperf'', [[umrzeć]] ''perf''
#:*Russian: [[умереть]]
#:*Slovak: [[umrieť]], [[skonať]], [[pominúť sa]], 
#:*Spanish: [[morir]]
#:*Swedish: [[dö]], ([[dog]], [[dött]])
#:*Tupinambá: [[manõ]]/[[e'õ]] (t-)

===Etymology 2===
Middle English from Old French ''dé''
===Pronunciation===
*[[w:AHD|AHD]]: dī
*[[w:IPA|IPA]]: /daɪ/
*[[w:SAMPA|SAMPA]]: /daI/
===Noun===
Plural: dice
#The cubical part of a [[pedestal]], a plinth
#:'''Translations'''
#:*Dutch: [[voet]], [[plint]]
#:*Interlingua: [[plyntho]], [[socculo]]
#:*Portuguese: [[plinto]] ''m'', [[soclo]] ''m'', [[soco]] ''m''
#A polyhedron, usually a cube, with numbers or symbols on each side and used in games of chance
#:'''Translations'''
#:*Breton: [[diñs]] ''m'' -où ''pl''
#:*Dutch: [[dobbelsteen]], [[teerling]] (old)
#:*Finnish: [[noppa]], [[arpakuutio]]
#:*French: [[dé]] ''m''
#:*Frisian: [[dobbelstien]]
#:*German: [[Würfel]]
#:*Hebrew: [[קוביה]]
#:*Interlingua: [[dato]]
#:*Italian: [[dado]] ''m''
#:*Polish: [[kość]] ''f'', [[kostka]] ''f''
#:*Portuguese: [[dado]] ''m''
#:*Spanish: [[dado]] ''m''
#:*Swedish: [[tärning]]

Plural: dies
#A device for cutting into a specified shape
#:'''Translations'''
#:*Dutch: [[mal]], [[matrijs]], [[vorm]]
#:*Finnish: [[muotti]], [[stanssi]]
#An embossed device used in stamping coins and medals
#:'''Translations'''
#:*Dutch: [[stempel]]
#:*Finnish: [[leimasin]]
#:*Interlingua: [[cuneo]]
#:*Portuguese: [[cunho]] ''m''

----

== Dutch ==

/di:/

# ''demonstrative pronoun'', ''masculine'' or ''feminine'' referring to a thing or a person, farther away: [[that]], [[him]], [[her]] (cp. [[deze]], and [[dat]]/[[dit]]).
# ''demonstrative adjective'', referring to a thing or a person: that, [[which]], [[who]].

Usage note: a preceding comma may alter the meaning of a clause starting with a demonstrative adjective.

''De jonge vrouw, die de schoen past, zal ik huwen'' vs. ''De jonge vrouw die de schoen past, zal ik huwen'': the young woman, whom the shoe (incidentally) fits, I will marry, vs. the (first) young woman whom the shoe fits I will marry.

=== Examples ===

# ''die boom'': that tree; ''die jongen''; that boy.

====Translations====

*English: [[that]]

===Relative pronoun===

=== Examples ===

# ''Ik ken iemand die dat kan'': I know somebody [[who]] can do that.

====Translations====

*English: [[who]]

----
== German ==

'''die'''

=== Adjective ===

# The [[definite article]], used with plural or feminine singular nouns.

====Translations====

*English: [[the]]

===Relative pronoun===

# In a subordinate clause, indicates a person or thing referenced in the main clause.  Used with plural or feminine singular referents.
#: Ich kenne eine Frau, ''die'' dass kann: I know a woman ''who'' can do that.

====Translations====

*English: [[that]], [[which]], [[who]], [[whom]], [[whose]]

----
==Latin==
===Noun===
#Ablative singular of ''[[dies]]'' meaning [[day]].

===Expressions===
#''Sine die'': Without a day

[[pl:die]]