==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|/dɪg/}}, {{SAMPA|/dIg/}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɪɡ|-ɪɡ]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb|digs|digging|dug}}

# To move earth out of the way.
# To drill etc. through rocks, roads, etc.
# To practice gardening, mining or archeology.
# To research a particular subject.

====Derived terms====
*[[dig up]]

====Translations====
{{rfc-trans}}
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[gërmoj]]
*Catalan: [[cavar]]
*Croatian: [[kopati]]
*Czech: [[kopat]]
*Dutch: [[graven]]
*Esperanto: [[fosi]]
*Finnish: [[kaivaa]], [[tonkia]]
*French: [[creuser]]
*German: [[graben]]
*Gothic: [[graban]]
*Hungarian: [[ás]], [[túr]]
*Ilocano: [[kali]]
*Indonesian: [[gali]], [[gali|menggali]] 
*Interlingua: [[excavar]], [[fossar]], [[vi foder]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[scavare]]
*Japanese: [[掘る]] ([[ほる]], horu)
*[[Kurdish]]: {{trad|ku|kolîn}}, {{trad|ku|kêlan}}, {{trad|ku|kolandin}}
*Maori: [[keri]]
*Old English: [[delfan]]
*Polish: [[kopać]]
*Portuguese: [[escavar]], [[cavar]]
*Romanian:  [[escava]], [[sapa]]
*Russian: [[копать]] (kopát’)
*Spanish: [[cavar]]
*Swedish: [[gräva]]
*Tagalog: [[hukay]]
*[[Telugu]]: [[తవ్వు]] (tavvu)
*Tongan: [[keli]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

# An [[archeological]] [[investigation]]

====Synonyms====
#[[excavation]]

====Translations====
*German: [[Grabung]] {{f}}, [[Ausgrabung]] {{f}}

----

==Danish==

===Pronoun===
'''dig'''

#[[you]] (informal, {{s}}, acc.)

[[Category:Danish pronouns]]


----

==Swedish==

===Pronoun===
'''dig'''

# [[you]] (''objective case'')
#:''Jag såg '''dig''' aldrig där'' = ''I never saw '''you''' there''
# [[yourself]]
#:''Slog du '''dig'''?'' = ''Did you hit '''yourself'''?''


----
==Ebonics==

===Verb===
'''dig''' (''no inflected forms'')
#To understand.
#To appreciate.
#To agree (with).

[[fr:dig]]
[[gl:dig]]
[[ko:dig]]
[[io:dig]]
[[hu:dig]]
[[pl:dig]]
[[pt:dig]]
[[fi:dig]]
[[sv:dig]]
[[uk:dig]]
[[zh:dig]]