{{webster}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*(''verb''): dī-jĕstʹ, /daɪˈdʒɛst/, /<tt>daI"dZEst</tt>/ ''or'' dĭ-jĕstʹ, /daɪˈdʒɛst/, /<tt>daI"dZEst</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-digest-verb.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*(''noun''): dīʹjĕst, /ˈdaɪdʒɛst/, /<tt>"daIdZEst</tt>/
*{{audio|en-us-digest-noun.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɛst|-ɛst]]

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#{{transitive}} To distribute or arrange methodically; to work over and classify; to reduce to portions for ready use or application
#:''to digest laws''
#{{transitive}} To separate (the food) in its passage through the alimentary canal into the nutritive and nonnutritive elements; to prepare, by the action of the digestive juices, for conversion into blood; to convert into [[chyme]].
#{{transitive}} To think over and arrange methodically in the mind; to reduce to a plan or method; to receive in the mind and consider carefully; to get an understanding of; to comprehend.
#{{transitive}} To appropriate for strengthening and comfort.
#{{transitive}} Hence, to bear comfortably or patiently; to be reconciled to; to brook.
#{{transitive}} {{chemistry}} To soften by heat and moisture; to expose to a gentle heat in a boiler or [[matrass]], as a preparation for chemical operations.
#{{transitive}} To dispose (an ulcer or wound) to suppurate, or generate healthy pus.
#{{intransitive}} To ripen; to mature.
#{{intransitive}} To quiet or abate, as anger or grief.
#{{intransitive}} To undergo digestion; as, food digests well or ill.
#{{intransitive}} To suppurate; to generate pus, as an ulcer.

====Synonyms====
*(''distribute or arrange methodically''): [[arrange]], [[sort]], [[sort out]]
*(''separate food in the alimentary canal''): 
*(''think over and arrange methodically in the mind''): [[sort out]]
*(''appropriate for strengthening and comfort''): 
*(''bear comfortably or patiently; to be reconciled to; to brook''): [[bear]], [[brook]], [[put up with]], [[tolerate]]
*(''in chemistry: soften by heat and moisture''): 
*(''dispose (an ulcer or wound) to suppurate''): 
*(''ripen; mature''): become ''or'' get ripe, [[mature]], [[ripen]]
*(''quiet or abate, as anger or grief''): [[abate]], [[calm]], [[quiet]], [[subside]]
*(''undergo digestion''): 
*(''suppurate; to generate pus, as an ulcer''): [[suppurate]]

====Translations====
'''distribute or arrange methodically'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[järjestellä]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''separate food in the alimentary canal'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sulattaa]]
*French: [[digérer]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[digerire]]
{{bottom}}

'''think over and arrange methodically in the mind'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[sulattaa]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''appropriate for strengthening and comfort'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''bear comfortably or patiently; to be reconciled to; to brook'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''in chemistry: soften by heat and moisture; to expose to a gentle heat in a boiler or matrass, as a preparation for chemical operations'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''dispose (an ulcer or wound) to suppurate, or generate healthy pus'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''ripen; mature'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''quiet or abate, as anger or grief'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''undergo digestion'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''suppurate; to generate pus, as an ulcer'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}

#That which is digested; especially, that which is worked over, classified, and arranged under proper heads or titles
#A compilation of statutes or decisions analytically arranged. The term is applied in a general sense to the Pandects of Justinian (see Pandect), but is also specially given by authors to compilations of laws on particular topics; a summary of laws
#:''Comyn's Digest''
#:''the United States Digest''
#A magazine of abridged articles.
#:''[[Reader's Digest]]''

====Translations====
'''that which is digested'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''compilation of statutes or decisions analytically arranged'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[tiivistelmä]], [[yhteenveto]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''magazine of abridged articles'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English heteronyms]]
[[Category:English verbs that lack inflection template]]

[[fr:digest]]
[[io:digest]]
[[it:digest]]
[[hu:digest]]
[[pl:digest]]
[[vi:digest]]
[[zh:digest]]