==English==

===Alternative spellings===
*[[deinosaur]] ''(archaic)''
(ancient creatures of the Jurassic,
Triassic, and Creatacous periods)

===Noun===
{{wikipedia}}
'''dinosaur''' (''plural:'' '''[[dinosaurs]]''')
# Any of various [[extinct]] [[reptile]]s existing between about 230 million and 65 million years ago.
# (''figurative, colloquial'') A person who is very old or has very old-fashioned views.

====Synonyms====
*(''person who is very old''): [[fossil]], [[old fart]]

====Translations====

'''extinct reptile'''
{{top}}
*Bosnian: [[dinosaurus#Bosnian|dinosaurus]]
*Catalan: [[dinosaure#Catalan|dinosaure]]
*Chinese: [[恐龙]] (kǒng lóng)
*Esperanto: [[dinosaŭro]]
*Estonian: [[dinosaurus#Estonian|dinosaurus]]
*Finnish: [[dinosaurus#Finnish|dinosaurus]], [[hirmulisko]]
*French: [[dinosaure#French|dinosaure]]
*Hungarian: [[dinoszaurusz]]
{{mid}}
*Ido: [[dinosaurio]]
*Lithuanian: [[dinozauras]] {{m}}
*Polish: [[dinozaur]] {{m}}
*Russian: [[динозавр]] {{m}}
*Slovak: [[dinosaurus#Slovak|dinosaurus]] {{m}}
*Spanish: [[dinosaurio]]
*Welsh: [[deinosor]]
{{bottom}}

'''person who is very old or has very old-fashioned views'''

== Headline text ==
[[Link title]][[Media:Example.ogg]]'''Bold text'''''Italic text''
== Headline text ==
Ok, Ok guys...Dinosaurs make me hungry.
{{top}}
''none yet''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

[[Category:Reptiles]]
[[Category:Greek derivations]]

[[fr:dinosaur]]
[[io:Dinosaur]]
I CAN beleive, I KNOW the butterflies, I WILL TAME THIS LION! HUZZAH!
wow...that's a big lion. I'm a little weirded out.
BUT I WILL STILL TAME THE LION! LIKE TARZAN! FO' REAL!
== That is all ==
''Seriously''
--[[User:170.158.106.19|170.158.106.19]] 14:20, 4 November 2005 (UTC)Georgey