==English==

===Etymology===
Middle English [[directen]], from Latin [[directus|dīrectus]], [[derectus|dērectus]], past participle of [[dirigere|dīrigere]], [[derigere|dērigere]] "to direct, arrange", from [[dis-]] + [[regere]] "to guide, direct".

The global chart of D-R-K DIRECTION words below makes this etymology suspect. Even if one does want to trace DIRECTION to Latin regere (to guide) Edenic [O[aReKH means to arrange (source of ARRANGE).

All roads lead from Babel 
  
 Any bible concordance will confirm that Daled-Resh-Kahf has all the meanings below.                 
 Here is an example of what happened to Edenic DeReKH – Dalet-Resh-Khaf. 
 You’ll see that only Dalet-Resh-Khaf (Biblical Hebrew DeReKH) has all the “genes” for the global diversity of its Tower-of-Babel spin-offs.

 1)  Dalet:   D and T are “dentals” or the interchangeable tooth-made letters.
 2)  Resh:   R and L are “liquids” or the interchangeable tongue-made letters.
 3)  Khaf:  G, H, K, Q are “gutturals” or the interchangeable throat-made letters.
 
Language        Meaning                    spelling of similar dental-liquid-guttural term
Edenic  (way, manner, journey, road)  De   Re     KH
Arabic   (highway, way)                          Ta    Ri       Q  
Australian  (paths)                                   Tu    Ri(n)   Gas
Australian  (straight, direct)                    Thoo R        Gool
Basque  (street)                                                kaL     eKo
Malay: Bouton  (road)                             Da    Ra
Chinese     (way)                                     Dau   Lu
Czech        (track, way)                           T       Ra      Ha
Dutch    (draw; a long journey…TREK) T       R         eK
Finnish      (course, way)                        To     La 
Gaelic       (journey)                               Tu     Rus
Gaelic       (direction)                              uD   aR         u
German      (through, by way of)             Du    R         CH
(source of THROUGH, THOROUGHFARE, THRUWAY …)
Indonesian   (direction)                             a     Ra       H
Indonesian   (manner, way)                     Tja     Ra
Japanese      (journey)                                      Ryo    Ko
Japanese      (fashion)                                       Ryu    Ko
Japanese      (road)                                  Do     Ro
Japanese      (street)                                 To     Ri 
Korean         (manner, way)                              Ro     Khe
Korean     (reversal of kil, road, street)            Li      K
Latin      (to direct; whence DIRIGIBLE)  Di    Ri     Gere
Latin      (journey; whence, ITINERANT)  iT   eR
Old English (reverse of rad, a road)          Da    R
(source of RAID, RIDE and ROAD)
Old French   (reverse of rote, way, path)  eT    oR                        
(source of  ROTE, ROUTE, ROUTINE)
Old French (reverse of route, way, road) eT   ouR
(source of RUT)
Old French (track, way, course)                T      R    aC
(source of  TRACE, TRACK… 
Polish           (course, track)                     To     R
Polish            (way)                                  D      Ro    Ga
Russian          (road, way)                        Da     Ro    Ga
Spanish   (right direction, straight)           De     Re    CHo
Thai               (direct, straight)                 Dt      Ro    Hng

This list has to be kept short.  Otherwise it could run into related terms like DaRahKH, to tred, which would lead to the Greek source of TRUCK and TRUDGE, and so on…  Scrambled, metathesis forms of DeReKH, like Turkish DoGRu (straight), and Irish/Gaelic RuTHaG (path) were left out in favor of only those in perfect dental-liquid-guttural sequence.     Other imperfect but notable entries include  Italian DiReZione (route, trend), German RiCHTung (route, trend, way... source of RIGHT) and “directory” words like Albanian Drejtori, Italian DiReezione,  Manx oRDaGH and Malay aRaH (matching Indonesian aRaH, course).
   

Fernando Aedo’s additions (that extend beyond the usual shifts):

Language        	Meaning                    		spelling of similar dental-liquid-guttural term

Mayan
Pocomchi	Road, path roq yuuq’			ro	q yuuq’
Quechua (Inca)
Quechua	narrow street,or passage.                                              
		(Reversal of K’ikllu)		llu	kik
Dravidian   (languages of S. India)                                                
Tamil		way, road, path, means, manner, method
 a_	ru		
[ The unusual Daled to S shift in Dravidian is like the Zayin to D (dental-fricative) shift seen in Edenic to Aramaic, see AUDIENE from [O]ZeN (ear) ] 
Maithili_	road  				sa	r.a	k	
Sanskrit	(saraka, a continuous line of road 	sa	ra	ka 	
Gondi		road, walk  			sa	rri_		
Kond.a		way, path  			sa	r-i		  
(pl.) 				sa	R	ku
Tamil lexicon	way, road  (c=ch like in change)	ca	ri		
Kota		road, path 			a.d	a.ry		
		way, road, path  			da_	ri		
Gujara_ti_	main (of a road) 			dho	ri_		
Sanskrit		track, line 		             li_	kka
Bengali  	line, track, rut  			              li	k	
Tamil		way, path, public road, rule	at	ar	
Sinhalese	crossing, road      		ta	ra		
Khowa_r (Dardic)  upper road 	             	to_	ri		
Tamil		way, road, path, right mode  	ta_	ri		
Telugu, Tamil	way, path  			ta_	rai		
Tamil		street, highway, public road  	te	ru		
Tulu		lane, footpath			o	r	n:ku	
Belari		way  				Te	ru	vam	

More RG and RK terms related to LaiKH (go) and ReeGaiL (to explore, tour, go on foot – see “WALK).

If you want to discover world cognates of a word, or if 
you know some similar sounding way/road word in a language not listed above, please contact the Edenics project through www.edeenics.com

	



===Pronunciation===
*{{IPA|/dɪˈrɛkt/, /ˌdaɪˈrɛkt/, /dɚˈɛkt/}}
*{{SAMPA|/dI"rEkt/, /%daI"rEkt/, /d3`"Ekt/}}

===Adjective===
'''direct'''  ({{compar}}: '''more direct''', {{superl}}: '''most direct''')

# Straight, constant, without interruption.

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# To manage, control, steer.
# To aim at.
#:''They '''directed''' their fire towards the men on the wall.''
#:''He '''directed''' his question to the room in general.''

===Derived terms===
*[[direct current]]
*[[direct flight]]
*[[direction]]
*[[director]]

===Related terms===
*[[adroit]]
*[[dirge]]
*[[dirigible]]
*[[dress]]

[[Category:Positive words]]

[[ar:direct]]
[[de:direct]]
[[fr:direct]]
[[ko:direct]]
[[io:direct]]
[[it:direct]]
[[hu:direct]]
[[nl:direct]]
[[zh:direct]]