==English==
===Etymology===
{{wikipedia}}
After Dirty Harry, a fictional police detective.

===Noun===
'''Dirty Harry''' 
# ''(metaphorically)'' a police officer whom is wreckless, disregards practices and policies, or whom practices vigilantism, or has a questionable use of force and officer involved shooting incidents. 

===Synonyms===
* [[vigilante]]
* [[loose cannon]]


==References==
* JSTOR: [http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0002-7162(198011)452%3C33%3ATDHP%3E2.0.CO%3B2-0 ''Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science'', Vol. 452, '''''The Police and Violence''''' (Nov., 1980), '''The Dirty Harry Problem ''', pp. 33-47] Carl B. Klockars
* JSTOR: [http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0002-7162(198011)452%3C1%3APOPAV%3E2.0.CO%3B2-1 ''Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science'', Vol. 452, '''The Police and Violence''' (Nov., 1980), '''Perspectives on Police and Violence''', pp. 1-12] Lawrence W. Sherman
* '''The evolution of the Dirty Harry syndrome, 1971-1988 : a comparison of a fictional police officer's behavioral patterns to those of a non-fictional officer''' (1993)] William K Rowlette
* British Library: [http://direct.bl.uk/bld/PlaceOrder.do?UIN=027389223&ETOC=RN&from=searchengine ''EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES'' 1997, VOL 26; NUMBER 6, pages 18-23 '''The Demise of Dirty Harry'''] C. Summer (ISSN: 0094-6575)
* British Library: [http://direct.bl.uk/bld/PlaceOrder.do?UIN=036373039&ETOC=RN&from=searchengine ''UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO LAW REVIEW'' 1997, VOL 64; NUMBER 4, pages 1457-1491 '''Dirty Harry and the Real Constitution. The Constitution and Criminal Procedure: First Principles'''] Akhil Reed Amar & M.S. Paulsen (ISSN: 0041-9494)
* ''african security review'' Vol.9, Issue 1, '''''Dirty Harry is back: Vigilantism in South Africa-The (re) emergence of the “good” and “bad” community” ''''' (2000) pp. 18
* Springer: [http://www.springerlink.com/content/gnj05164ru3610lk/ ''European Journal on Criminal Policy and Research'' Volume 8, Number 3 / September, 2000 '''Police Powers and Accountability in a Democratic Society: Introductory Report''' pp. 237-245] Joachim Kersten
* Social Science Research Nework: [http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=788745 ''New England School of Law'' 79 Tul. L. Rev. 1 (2004) '''What Happens When Dirty Harry Becomes an (Expert) Witness for the Prosecution?'''] JOELLE ANNE MORENO 
* [http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1468-2230.00359#search=%22%22Nobles%22%20%22Due%20Process%20*%20Dirty%22%22 ''The Modern Law Review'' Volume 64 Issue 6 Page 911  - November 2001 '''Due Process and Dirty Harry Dilemmas: Criminal. Appeals and the Human Rights Act'''] Richard Nobles & David Schiff
* Ingenta Connect: [http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/bpl/japp/2006/00000023/00000003/art00009 ''Journal of Applied Philosophy'', Volume 23, Number 3, August 2006, pp. 337-353(17) ''' Torture — The Case for Dirty Harry and against Alan Dershowitz'''] UWE STEINHOFF