{{webster}}
==English==
===Pronunciation===
*Verb:
**(''in some senses'') dĭskount', /dɪsˈkaʊnt/, /<tt>dIs"kaUnt</tt>/
**(''in some senses'') dĭs'kount, /ˈdɪskaʊnt/, /<tt>"dIskaUnt</tt>/
*Noun and adjective:
**dĭs'kount, /ˈdɪskaʊnt/, /<tt>"dIskaUnt</tt>/

===Transitive verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|discount||}}

#To deduct from an account, debt, charge, and the like; to make an abatement of; as, merchants sometimes discount five or six per cent for prompt payment of bills.
#To lend money upon, deducting the discount or allowance for interest; as, the banks discount notes and bills of exchange.
#To take into consideration beforehand; to anticipate and form conclusions concerning (an event).
#To leave out of account; to take no notice of.
#To lend, or make a practice of lending, money, abating the discount; as, the discount for sixty or ninety days.

===Noun===
'''discount''' (''plural'' '''discounts''')

#A reduction in price.
<!--webster: #A counting off or deduction made from a gross sum on any account whatever; an allowance upon an account, debt, demand, price asked, and the like; something taken or deducted.-->
#A deduction made for interest, in advancing money upon, or purchasing, a bill or note not due; payment in advance of interest upon money.
#The rate of interest charged in discounting.

====Synonyms====
*(''reduction in price''): [[rebate]], [[reduction]]

====Translations====

'''reduction in price'''
{{top}}
*French: [[rabais]] ''m''
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''deduction made for interest'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''rate of interest charged in discounting'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=== Adjective ===
'''discount''' (''no [[comparative]] or [[superlative]]'')

#Of goods, available at [[reduce]]d prices; discounted.
#:''This store specializes in '''discount''' wares.''
#Of a store, specializing in goods at reduced prices.
#:''If you're looking for cheap clothes, there's a '''discount''' clothier around the corner.''

[[Category:English heteronyms]]

[[fr:discount]]
[[io:discount]]
[[it:discount]]
[[zh:discount]]