==English==
=== Noun ===
'''doctor'''

#A member of the [[medicine|medical]] profession. One who is trained and licenced to heal the sick. The final examination and qualification may award a doctorate in which case the post-nominal letters are [[MD]].  In the UK the qualifying exam is a first degree and the letters are MBBS or MBChB. Usually it refers to a G.P. (general practitioner).
#A [[physician]].
#A person who has attained a [[doctorate]] such as a [[D.A.]], [[D.B.A.]], [[D.F.A.]], [[D.M.A.]], [[D.M.L.]], [[D.Sc.]], [[Ed.D.]], [[Ph.D.]], [[Th.D.]] or one of many other terminal degrees.

==== Translations ====
*Arabic: [[طبيب]], [[طَبِيبٌ]] ''m'', [[طبيبة]], [[طَبِيبَةٌ]] ''f''
*[[Bulgarian]]: [[доктор]] ''m'' (1,2), [[лекар]] ''m'' (2), [[лекарка]] ''f'' (2)
*[[Chinese]]: [[醫生]]/[[医生]] (yīshēng), [[大夫]] (dàifù)
*[[Dutch]]: [[dokter]] ''m,f'' (1), [[arts]] ''m,f'' (1), doctor ''m,f'' (2)
*[[Esperanto]]: [[doktoro]] ''m,f'' (1), [[kuracisto]] ''m,f'' (2)
*[[Finnish]]: [[lääkäri]] (1,2), [[parantaja]] (2), [[tohtori]] (1,3) 
*[[French]]: [[médecin]] ''m'' (1), [[médecine]] ''f'', [[docteur]] ''m'' (1)
*[[German]]: [[Arzt]] ''m'', [[Ärztin]] ''f'', [[Mediziner]] ''m'' (1), [[Doktor]]     (2)
*[[Italian]]: [[medico]] (1), [[dottore]] ''m'' (1, 2)
*[[Japanese]]: [[医師]] (いし, ishi), [[医者]] ([[いしゃ]], isha) (1), [[博士]] ([[はくし]], hakushi; [[はかせ]] hakase) (2)
*[[Polish]]: [[lekarz]] ''m'', [[lekarka]] ''f'', [[doktor]] ''m''
*[[Portuguese]]: [[médico]] ''m'' (1), [[médica]] ''f'' (1), [[doutor]] ''m'' (2), [[doutora]] ''f'' (2)
*[[Romanian]]: [[medic]] ''m,f'', doctor ''m,f''
*[[Russian]]: [[доктор]] ''m,f'' (1,2), [[врач]] ''m,f'' (2)
*[[Spanish]]: [[medico]] ''m'' (1), [[medica]] ''m'' (1)
*[[Swedish]]: [[doktor]] (1, 2), [[läkare]] (1)

===Verb===
'''doctor'''
#To act as a doctor.
#To change the writing on a piece of paper.

===Adjective (used as a title)===
'''doctor'''
#Indicates that a person has trained as a doctor.
#Indicates that a person has a doctorate.