==English==

===Noun===
{{en-noun}}
# {{pejorative}} One who uses [[performance]] [[enhancing]] [[substances]] for competitive gain, especially illegally.
#*'''2003:''' Sam ''[http://groups.google.com/group/rec.skiing.snowboard/browse_thread/thread/286095c5883916b6/f18ddcff06a64fb8?lnk=st&q=&rnum=5&hl=en#f18ddcff06a64fb8  	"I can't even explain what I'm feeling right now," says CLark]'' in rec.skiing.snowboard
#*:Would you care to point to some proof other than the Canuck's positive back in Nagano?  If you are using that as a basis then all sports would be riddled with "'''dopers'''" especially XC skiing.
#*'''2006:''' Matt Seaton, ''[http://commentisfree.guardian.co.uk/matt_seaton/2006/07/post_263.html Tour de farce]'', Guardian Unlimited
#*:...the testers are always in a race with the '''dopers''' and usually playing catch-up.
# {{pejorative}} One who frequently uses [[recreational]] [[drug]]s; a [[druggie]]; a [[stoner]].
#*'''2003:''' Lt. John Hadily, ''[http://groups.google.com/group/talk.politics.drugs/browse_thread/thread/28db6f7f503ddfe0/c312e5ec68ccc382?lnk=st&q=&rnum=1&hl=en#c312e5ec68ccc382 ICE DESTROYS LIVES-TPD DOPERS IN DENIAL]'' in talk.politics.drugs
#*:I will keep posting the fact that if you possess drugs where I am employed and you are caught I'll throw your sorry ass in a cage where the '''dopers''' belong.
#*'''2006:''' Gene Seymour, ''[http://www.newsday.com/features/printedition/ny-etlede4822901jul21,0,7193099.story?coll=ny-features-print Clerks II]'', Newsday
#*:With the Kwik-Mart leveled by fire, Dante and Randal's professional aspirations take a southerly route to a Mooby's fast-food restaurant where dopey '''dopers''' Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith) have followed with their boombox and illicit activities.
#*'''2006:''', Anthony Cormier, ''[http://www.heraldtribune.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20060720/NEWS/607200501/1060 Father: 'We're here to find her body']'', HeradTribune.com
#*:Tamara Toy was a blue-eyed daughter of a preacher, growing up good and God-fearing but eventually getting lost along the way, falling in with '''dopers''' and felons and a petty crook who stole her heart.