==English==

===Pronunciation===
*[[Pronunciation guide|IPA]]:/ˈdʌbəl/

===Etymology===

13th Century. From [[Old French]], from [[Latin]] ''[[duplus]]'': [[twofold]], from ''[[duo]]'' two ''-plus'' ''[[-fold]]''.

===Adjective===
'''double''' (no comparative or superlative forms)

# Made up of two matching or complementary elements
#: ''The closet has '''double''' doors.''
# Twice the quantity
#: ''Give me a '''double''' serving of mashed potatoes.''
# (''family relationship'') related on both the maternal and paternal sides of a family
#: ''He's my '''double''' cousin as my mother's sister married my father's brother.''
# Designed for two [[user]]s.
#: ''A '''double''' room.''
# Folded in two; composed of two [[layer]]s.
# [[stooping|Stooping]]; bent over.
# Having two aspects; [[ambiguous]].
#: ''A '''double''' meaning.''
# False, deceitful, or [[hypocritical]].
#: ''A '''double''' life.''
# (''of [[flower]]s'') Having more than the normal number of [[petal]]s.
# {{music}}
## (''of an [[instrument]]'') Sounding an [[octave]] lower.
##: ''A '''double''' bass.''
## (''of [[time]]'') [[duple]].

====Related terms====
*[[double agent]]
*[[double cousin]]
*[[double double]]
*[[double entendre]]
*[[double meaning]]
*[[double strength]]
*[[double vision]]
*[[duplex]]
*[[quadruple]]
*[[triple]]

===Translations===
{{top}}
*[[Chinese]]: [[双重的]]
*Finnish: [[tupla]]
*German: [[doppelt]]
*[[Ido]] : [[duopla]]
*Italian: [[doppio]] ''m'', [[doppia]] ''f''
*[[Latin]]: [[duplex]]
{{mid}}
*[[Polish]]: [[podwójny]] ''m'', [[podwójna]] ''f'', [[podwójne]] ''n''
*Portuguese: [[duplo]]
*Russian: [[двойной]] ''m''
*Spanish: [[doble]]
*Telugu: [[రెట్టింపు]] (reTTimpu)
*Turkish: [[çift]]
{{bottom}}

===Adverb===
'''double'''

#Twice over; [[twofold]].
#Two together; two at a time. (Esp. in '''[[see double]]'''.)

===Noun===
'''double''' (plural: [[doubles]])

#Twice the number, amount, size, etc.
#A person who resembles and stands in for another person, often for safety purposes
#:''Saddam Hussein was rumoured to have many '''doubles'''.''
#A drink with two portions of alcohol
#: ''On second thought, make that a '''double'''.''
#''(baseball))'' A two-base hit
#: ''The catcher hit a '''double''' to lead off the ninth.''
#{{fencing}} An attack or riposte that describes a complete circle around the opponent's blade, and finishes in the opposite line
#A ghostly [[apparition]] of a living person; [[doppelgänger]].
#A sharp turn, ''esp.'' a return on one's own [[track]]s.
#{{Bridge}} A [[call]] that increases certain scoring points if the last preceeding [[bid]] becomes the [[contract]].
#{{billiards}} A [[strike]] in which the [[object]] [[ball]] is struck so as to make it rebound against the [[cushion]] to an opposite [[pocket]].
# A bet on two horses in different races in which any [[winning]]s from the first race are placed on the horse in the later race.
#
##The narrow outermost [[ring]] on a [[dartboard]].
##A [[hit]] on this ring.
#'''[[at]]''' or '''[[on the double]]'''.
##At twice normal [[march]]ing speed.
##[[quickly|Quickly]] or [[immediately]].

====Related terms====
*[[body double]]
*[[see double]]
*[[stunt double]]

====Translations====
*Finnish: ([[kaksoisolento]]) (1), [[tupla]] (2)
*German: [[Doppelgänger]] ''m'' (1), [[Doppelter]] ''m'' (2)
*[[Ido]] : [[sozio]]
*Italian: [[sosia]] ''m'' (1), [[doppio]] ''m'' (2)
*Russian: [[двойник]] ''m'' (1), [[двойной]] ''m'' (2)
*Spanish: [[doble]], [[sosias]]

===Verb===
'''to double''' ([[doubled]], [[doubles]], [[doubling]])

#To multiply by two
#: ''The company '''doubled''' their earnings per share over last quarter.''
#To fold over so as to make two folds
#: ''To make a pleat, '''double''' the material at the waist.''
#''(baseball)'' To get a two-base hit
#: ''The batter '''doubled''' into the corner.''
#{{transitive}} (sometimes ''foll.'' by ''[[up]]'') To [[clench]] (a [[fist]]).
#{{transitive}} (often ''foll.'' by ''[[together]]'' or ''[[up]]'') To join or [[couple]].
#{{transitive}} To repeat exactly; [[copy]].
#{{intransitive}} To play two parts or serve two [[role]]s.
#{{intransitive}} To turn [[sharply]]; following a winding course.
#{{nautical}} To [[sail]] around (a [[headland]] or other [[point]]).
#{{music}}
##To [[duplicate]] (a part) either in unison or at the [[octave]] above or below it.
##{{intransitive}} (usually ''foll.'' by ''[[on]]'') To be capable of performing (upon an additional [[instrument]]).
#{{bridge}} To make a [[call]] that will double certain scoring points if the preceding [[bid]] becomes the [[contract]].
#{{billiards}} To cause (a ball) to rebound or (of a ball) to rebound from a [[cushion]].
#{{intransitive}} (''foll.'' by ''[[for]]'') To act as [[substitute]].
#{{intransitive}} To go or [[march]] at twice the normal speed.

====Related terms====
*[[double over]]
*[[double up]]

====Other terms and phrases====
*[[double-cross]]
*[[double double]]
*[[doublehearted]]
*[[double take]]
*[[double-tongued]]
*[[double U]]

====Translations====
*Finnish: [[tuplata]]
*Russian: [[удваивать]]
*[[Spanish]]: [[doblar]]
*Svenska: [[fördubbla]]
*German: [[verdoppeln]]

===See also===
*[[quadruple]]
*[[quintuple]]
*[[sextuple]]
*[[single]]
*[[triple]]

==French==
===Adjective & Noun===
'''double'''

[[Category:Baseball|double]]

[[et:double]]
[[fr:double]]
[[io:double]]
[[it:double]]
[[hu:double]]
[[fi:double]]
[[zh:double]]