{{see|Down}}

==English==

{{rank|much|after|first|97|down|good|never|shall}}

===Etymology===
From the Proto-Germanic ''dana'', a prefix used before verbs (eg: ''dana-zeran'', ''to tear down'').

===Pronunciation===
*{{audio|en-us-down.ogg|Audio (US)}}
*Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-aʊn|-aʊn]]

===Adverb===
'''down'''
# From an higher position to a [[lower]] one; [[downwards]].
#: ''The cat jumped '''down''' from the table.'' 
#: ''Their prices are going '''down'''.''
# [[south|South]] (as south is at the bottom of typical maps).
#: ''I went '''down''' to Miami for a conference.''
# ''([[Hiberno English]])'' Away from the city (even if the location is to the North).
#: ''He went '''down''' to Cavan. '''Down''' on the farm.  '''Down''' country.''
# Into a state of non-[[operation]].
#: ''The computer has been shut '''down'''.
#: ''They closed the shop '''down'''.''

====Translations====
;downwards (1)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[ned]], [[nedad]]
*Finnish: [[alas]], [[alaspäin]]
{{mid}}
*Portuguese: [[abaixo]], [[para baixo]].
*Russian: [[ниже]] (níže), [[вниз]] (vniz)
*Swedish: [[ned]], [[ner]]
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Albanian}}: [[poshtë]]
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[avall]]
*{{ttbc|Croatian}}: [[dolje]]
*{{ttbc|Czech}}: [[dole]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: (naar) [[beneden]]
*{{ttbc|Esperanto}}: [[malsupren]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: (à/en) [[bas]]
*{{ttbc|German}}: [[nieder]], [[herunter]]
*{{ttbc|Greek}}: [[κάτω]] (káto)
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Hungarian}}: [[le]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[infre]], [[adinfre]]
*{{ttbc|Indonesian}}: [[bawah]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: (in) [[giù]]
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[下]] ([[した]], shitá)
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[jêr]], [[binî]]
*{{ttbc|Romanian}}: [[jos]]
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[abajo]]
{{bottom}}

===Preposition===
'''down'''
# From one end to another; especially, from a higher end to a lower.
#: ''The ball rolled '''down''' the hill.''
#: ''The bus went '''down''' the street.''
#: ''They walked '''down''' the beach holding hands.''

====Translations====
{{top}}
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[вниз]] (vniz), [[вдоль]] (vdol'), [[по]] (po)
{{bottom}}

===Adjective===
'''down'''

# [[depressed]], feeling low.
# On a lower level than before.
#:''The stock market is down.''
#:''Prices are down.''

====Translations====
;depressed (1)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[langt nede]], [[nede]], [[deprimeret]],
*Finnish: [[allapäin]], [[alakuloinen]]
*German: [[down]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[печальный]] (pečál’nyj)
{{bottom}}

;On a lower level than before (2)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[lav]], [[nedadgående]], [[aftagende]]
*German: [[unten]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[снижающийся]] (snižájuščijsja)
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[deprimit]], [[deprimido]]
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[depressief]], [[depri]]
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[dépressif]], [[dépri]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Irish}}: [[sios]]
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[giù]]
*{{ttbc|Kurdish}}: [[depresîf]], [[moralşkestî]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
'''down''' (uncountable)

#What grows on young birds before their [[feather]]s appear. Down looks like feathers but its ''backbone'' is not rigid or stiff. It makes good insulation material that is very flexible.
# ''(usually plural)'' field, especially for racing.
# ''(usually plural)'' hill, rolling grassland (such as "Churchill Downs", "Upson Downs" from ''Auntie Mame'', by Patrick Dennis).

====Translations====
;what grows on young birds (1)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[dun]]
*Finnish: [[untuva]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[Daune]] {{f}}, [[Daune]]n {{f}} {{p}}
*Russian: [[пух]] (puχ) (1)
*Swedish: [[dun]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

;field, especially for racing (2)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[bane]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;hill, rolling grassland (3)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[højdedrag]]
*German: [[Hügel]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|Catalan}}: [[plomissol]] {{m}}, [[plomissa]] {{f}}
*{{ttbc|Dutch}}: [[dons]] {{n}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[duvet]] {{m}}
*{{ttbc|Italian}}: [[piumino]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Japanese}}: [[綿毛]] ([[わたげ]], watage), [[ダウン]] (daun)
*{{ttbc|Spanish}}: [[plumón]] {{m}}
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
'''to down'''

#To drink or swallow, especially without stopping before the vessel containing the liquid is empty.
#To pot a ball.
#To drop.

====Translations====
;To drink or swallow (1)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[sluge]], [[hælde ned]]
*French: [[faire cul sec]]
*German: [[exen]], [[runterkippen]]
*Hungarian: [[pihe]]
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: ''transitive'' [[daqurtandin]], [[daûrandin]], [[dabelandin]], ''intransitive'' [[daqurtîn]], [[daûrîn]], [[dabelîn]]
*Russian: [[выпить залпом]] (výpit’ zálpom)
{{bottom}}

;To pot a ball (2)
{{top}}
*German: [[versenken]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;To drop (3)
{{top}}
*Danish: [[tabe]], [[lade falde]]
*French: [[laisser tomber]]
*German: [[fallen lassen]]
{{mid}}
*[[Kurdish]]: [[daxistin]], [[dahanîn]], [[daketin]], [[dahatin]]
{{bottom}}

===Related terms===
*[[down and out]]
*[[down payment]]
*[[downer]]
*[[top-down]]
*[[upside down]]

[[Category:English words with multiple etymologies]]
[[Category:100 English basic words]]
[[Category:English prepositions]]

[[de:down]]
[[fa:down]]
[[fr:down]]
[[ko:down]]
[[io:down]]
[[it:down]]
[[hu:down]]
[[simple:down]]
[[fi:down]]
[[ta:down]]
[[vi:down]]
[[zh:down]]