
To '''downgrade''' can mean several things.  To 'dumb down', or to reduce in complexity, to remove unnecessary parts, or to reduce the number of moving parts/applications/stocks.  The term downgrade is often used in the [[stock marke]]t to refer to a [[analyst]]&#8217;s change in the security of a stock, usually a negative change (e.g. from &#8216;buy&#8217; to &#8216;sell&#8217;.)

In [[meteorology]] '''downgrading''' refers to official reduction in a storms intensity.

In [[computer software]], '''downgrading''' refers to reverting software back to an older version. Often, complex programs may need to be downgraded to remove unused or [[bugged]] features, and to increase speed and/or ease of use. The same can occur with [[machine]]ry. Downgrading is a common practice during wartime, when money and materials are in short supply. A good example of a downgraded wartime machine is the [[German]] [[steam locomotive]] ''Kregslok'' ("war loco"). Cash and materials were in short supply, and locomotives were needed to quickly supply [[troops]] and bases on the front lines, as well as to manage newly won [[territories]]. The German solution to this new and urgent demand for locomotives was the ''Kregslok'', a steam locomotive that was downgraded greatly so that it consumed the cheapest metals and could be built by unskilled slave labor, thus helping the war effort.

An example of a downgraded program is [[Gmax]], a downgraded version of 3ds max used by professional computer graphics artists, simplified for ease of use.

{{vocab-stub}}