{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Alternative spellings===
''(UK:)'' [[draught]] (for some of the meanings)

===Pronunciation===
*/drɑːft/, /drA:ft/
*US: /dræft/
*:'''Homophones''': [[draught]]
*:Rhymes: [[Rhymes:English:-ɑːft|-ɑːft]]

=== Noun ===
{{en-noun}}

#an early [[version]] of a written work
#* I have to revise the first draft of my term paper.
#a [[preliminary]] sketch, rough [[outline]]
# Depth of water needed to float ship [also spelled [[draught]].]
#a current of air, usually coming into a room or vehicle [also spelled [[draught]].]
#a [[cheque]], an order for money to be paid
#an amount of liquid that is drunk in one swallow [also spelled [[draught]].]
#* She took a deep draught from the bottle of water.
#[[conscription]], the system of forcing people to serve in the [[military]]
#* He left the country to avoid the draft.
#{{italbrac|Sports}} a system of assigning [[rookie]] players to professional sports [[team]]s

====Translations====
;an early version of a written work (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[luonnos]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;a preliminary sketch (2)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[luonnos]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

=====Translations to be categorized=====
{{checktrans}}
{{top}}
*{{ttbc|French}}: [[brouillon]]
*{{ttbc|Ido}}: [[klado]]
{{mid}}
*{{ttbc|Polish}}: [[brudnopis]]
{{bottom}}

===Transitive Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#write a first [[version]], make a [[preliminary]] sketch.
#write a [[law]]
#[[conscript]] a person, force a person to serve in the [[military]]
#*He was drafted during the Vietnam War.
#to force or convince a person to do a job they do not want to do
#*They drafted me to be the chairperson of the new committee.
#''(Sports:)'' to select a [[rookie]] player onto a professional sports [[team]]
#* After his last year of college football, he was drafted by the Miami Dolphins.

====Translations====
;write a first version (1)
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[luonnostella]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[zeichnen]], [[entwerfen]]
{{bottom}}

;write a law (2)
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;conscript a person (3)
{{top}}
*German: [[abkommandieren]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

;to force or convince a person to do a job (4)
{{top}}
*German: [[auswählen]], [[einberufen]]
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

===Intransitive Verb===
{{en-verb}}

# (cycling) to follow very closely behind another rider, racer, or even a motor vehicle in order to gain an aerodynamic advantage by using the lead rider as a wind break and thereby conserving energy.

===Adjective===
'''draft'''

#Referring to drinks on tap as opposed to bottled. (''draft beers'')

[[Category:Cycle racing]]

[[io:draft]]
[[it:draft]]
[[ru:draft]]
[[vi:draft]]
[[zh:draft]]