==English==
===Pronunciation===
*drĭft, /drɪft/, /<tt>drIft</tt>/
*:[[Rhymes:English:-ɪft|Rhymes: -ɪft]]

===Noun===
'''drift''' ([[drifts]])

#The act or [[motion]] of drifting; the [[force]] which [[impel]]s or drives; an overpowering influence or impulse.
#[[Course]] or [[direction]] along which anything is driven; setting.
#The [[tendency]] of an [[act]], [[argument]], [[course]] of conduct, or the like; object aimed at or intended; [[intention]]; hence, also, import or meaning of a sentence or discourse; aim.
#That which is driven, forced, or urged along
#Anything driven at [[random]].
#A mass of matter which has been driven or forced onward together in a body, or thrown together in a heap, etc., esp. by wind or water; as, a drift of [[snow]], of [[ice]], of [[sand]], and the like.
#A [[drove]] or [[flock]], as of [[cattle]], [[sheep]], [[bird]]s.
#The [[horizontal]] [[thrust]] or [[pressure]] of an [[arch]] or [[vault]] upon the [[abutment]]s.
#A [[collection]] of loose earth and rocks, or [[boulder]]s, which have been distributed over large portions of the earth's [[surface]], especially in latitudes north of forty degrees, by the agency of ice.
#In South Africa, a [[ford]] in a river.
#A slightly tapered [[tool]] of steel for enlarging or shaping a [[hole]] in metal, by being forced or driven into or through it; a broach.
#A tool used in driving down compactly the composition contained in a [[rocket]], or like [[firework]].
#A deviation from the line of fire, peculiar to [[oblong]] [[projectile]]s.
#A passage driven or cut between [[shaft]] and shaft; a [[driftway]]; a small [[subterranean]] [[gallery]]; an [[adit]] or [[tunnel]].
#The [[distance]] through which a current flows in a given time.
#The [[angle]] which the line of a ship's motion makes with the [[meridian]], in drifting.
#The distance to which a vessel is carried off from her desired [[course]] by the wind, currents, or other causes.
#The place in a deep-waisted vessel where the [[sheer]] is raised and the rail is cut off, and usually terminated with a [[scroll]], or driftpiece.
#The distance between the two blocks of a [[tackle]].
#The difference between the size of a [[bolt]] and the hole into which it is driven, or between the [[circumference]] of a [[hoop]] and that of the mast on which it is to be driven.
#{{cricket}} A [[sideways]] movement of the [[ball]] through the air, when bowled by a [[spin bowler]].

====Translations====
*Swedish: [[drift#Swedish|drift]] (1,2,3,13,15,17), [[driva]] (6)

===Verb===
'''to drift''' ([[drifts]], [[drifted]], [[drifting]])
#To move slowly, pushed by [[current]]s of water, air, etc
## ''The boat drifted away from the [[shore]].
## ''The [[balloon]] was drifting in the [[breeze]]. 
#(people) To move haphazardly without any destination.
## ''He drifted from town to town, never settling down.
# (vehicle) To deviate gently from the intended direction of traval
## ''This car tends to drift left at high speeds

[[io:Drift]]
[[it:drift]]
[[fi:Drift]]