==English==

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|drop||p}}

# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To [[fall]].
#: ''A single shot was fired and the bird '''dropped''' from the sky.''
# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To fall in value.
#: ''The stock '''dropped''' 1.5% on the news.''
# ''([[intransitive]]):'' To [[lower]] oneself quickly to the ground.
#: '''''Drop''' and give me thirty push-ups, Private!''
#: ''If your clothes are on fire, stop, '''drop''' and roll.''
# To allow to fall.
#: ''Don't '''drop''' that plate!''
# To [[get rid of]].
#: ''I '''dropped''' 10 pounds and an obnoxious fiance.''
# To [[eject]], to [[remove]].
#: ''I've been '''dropped''' from the football team.''
# To [[fail]] to respond to an argument.
#: ''The affirmative team '''dropped''' our arguments about the cost of the plan.''
# (''drug slang'') To [[ingest]] a [[hallucinogen]], particularly [[LSD]].
#: ''They had never '''dropped''' acid.''
# (''slang'') To impart.
#: ''I '''drop''' knowledge wherever I go.''
# To fail to pronounce.
#:''Cockneys '''drop''' their h's.''

====Translations====

'''fall'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[vallen]]
*Finnish: [[pudota]], [[tippua]]
*French: [[tomber]]
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[cadere]]
*Slovak: [[spadnúť]]
*Swedish: [[falla]]
{{bottom}}

'''fall in value'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[dalen]]
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[pudota]]
*Swedish: [[falla]]
{{bottom}}

'''lower oneself quickly to the ground'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: (gaan) [[liggen]]
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[pudottautua]] (makuulleen)
{{bottom}}

'''allow to fall'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[laten vallen]]
*Finnish: [[pudottaa]]
{{mid}}
*French: [[laisser tomber]]
*Swedish: [[tappa]]
{{bottom}}

'''get rid of'''
''See'' '''[[get rid of]]'''

'''eject, remove'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[uistoten]], [[verwijderen]]
{{mid}}
*Finnish: [[pudottaa]]
{{bottom}}

'''fail to respond to in an argument'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slang: to ingest a hallucinogen'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''slang: impart'''
{{top}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''fail to pronounce'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[laten vallen]]
{{mid}}
*Swedish: [[tappa]]
{{bottom}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}

# A fall.
#: ''That was a long '''drop''', but fortunately I didn't break any bones.''
# The space beyond a boundary into which someone or something could fall.
#: ''On one side of the road was a 50-meter '''drop'''.''
# (''crime'') A place where items may be left anonymously for others to collect.
#: ''I left the plans at the '''drop''', like you asked.''
# A small mass of liquid, just large enough to fall away of its own weight.
#: ''Put three '''drops''' of oil into the mixture.''
# A small, round [[sweet]]/piece of [[candy]].
#: ''Lemon '''drops''' are delicious.''

====Translations====

'''fall'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[val]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[putous]], [[putoaminen]]
*French: [[chute#French|chute]] {{f}}
{{mid}}
*German: [[Fall]] {{m}}, [[Sturz]] {{m}}
*Italian: [[caduta]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[fall#Swedish|fall]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''space into which someone or something could fall'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[pudotus]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[Abfall]] {{m}}, [[Absturz]] {{m}}
*Swedish: [[stup]] {{n}}
{{bottom}}

'''place where items may be left'''
{{top}}
*German: der [[tote Briefkasten]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
{{bottom}}

'''small mass of liquid'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[druppel]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[pisara]], [[tippa]]
*French: [[goutte]] {{f}}
*German: [[Tropfen]] {{m}}
{{mid}}
*Italian: [[goccia]] {{f}}
*[[Kurdish]]: [[dilop]], [[çip]], [[çipik]]
*Slovak: [[kvapka#Slovak|kvapka]] {{f}}
*Slovene: [[kaplja]] {{f}}
*Swedish: [[droppe]] {{c}}
{{bottom}}

'''small, round sweet/piece of candy'''
{{top}}
*Dutch: [[snoepje]], [[bolletje]]
{{mid}}
*German: [[Bonbon]] ''m/n'', ''sour:'' [[Drops]] ''m sing.''
{{bottom}}

===Derived terms===
*[[cough drop]]
*[[dead drop]]
*[[dewdrop]]
*[[drop by]]
*[[drop dead]]
*[[drop in]]
*[[drop kick]]
*[[droplet]]
*[[drop off]]
*[[dropoff]], [[drop-off]]
*[[drop out]]
*[[dropout]], [[drop-out]]
*[[dropper]]
*[[drop scone]]
*[[drop shot]]
*[[one drop]]
*[[raindrop]]
*[[teardrop]]

----
==Dutch==
===Noun===
'''drop''' {{f}}, {{m}} '''and''' {{n}}; tendency towards using the male form most both in the Netherlands and Flanders'' (''diminutive'' '''[[dropje]]''')

#[[licorice]]

====Synonyms====
*[[zoethout]] {{n}}

----
==French==
===Noun===
'''drop''' {{m}}

#[[dropgoal]]

[[Category:1000 English basic words]]
[[fr:drop]]
[[io:Drop]]
[[it:drop]]
[[nl:drop]]
[[ru:Drop]]
[[fi:drop]]