==English==
{{webster}}
===Etymology===
From [[w:Old English language|Anglo-Saxon]][[Category:Anglo-Saxon derivations]] dubban (meaning ''to [[strike]], [[beat]] (dubbade his sunu . . . to rīdere)''). Akin to [[w:Icelandic language|Icelandic]][[Category:Icelandic derivations]] dubba; compare [[w:Old French|Old French]][[Category:Old French derivations]] adouber (probabaly from [[w:Icelandic language|Icelandic]][[Category:Icelandic derivations]]), meaning ''a [[chevalier]]'', [[w:Icelandic language|Icelandic]][[Category:Icelandic derivations]] ''dubba til riddara'').
====Noun====
'''dub'''
#(Obsolete) a [[blow]]
====Transitive verb====
#To confer [[knighthood]]; the conclusion of the ceremony was marked by a tap on the shoulder with the sword. 
#Hence, to [[name]], to [[entitle]], to [[call]]
#:''A man of wealth is dubbed a man of worth.'' Pope.



===Etymology===
From a shortening of the word [[double]]
====Verb====
'''to dub'''
#to make a copy from an original or master audio tape
#to copy the [[audio]] track onto a film
#to [[mix]] audio tracks to produce a new sound; to [[remix]]
====Noun====
'''dub'''
# A mostly instrumental remix with all or part of the vocals removed.
# A style of [[reggae]] music involving mixing of different audio tracks

<!--
From Webster:
Dub (Page: 458)
Dub (?), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dubbed (?); p. pr. & vb. n. Dubbing.] [AS. dubban to strike, beat (dubbade his sunu . . . to r&imacr;dere." AS. Chron. an 1086); akin to Icel. dubba; cf. OF. adouber (prob. fr. Icel.) a chevalier, Icel. dubba til riddara.] 

1. To confer knight. &hand; The conclusion of the ceremony was marked by a tap on the shoulder with the sword. 

2. To invest with any dignity or new character; to entitle; to call. 

A man of wealth is dubbed a man of worth. Pope.
3. To clothe or invest; to ornament; to adorn. [Obs.] 

His diadem was dropped down Dubbed with stones. Morte d'Arthure.
4. To strike, rub, or dress smooth; to dab; as: (a) To dress with an adz; as, to dub a stick of timber smooth. [459]

(b) To strike cloth with teasels to raise a nap. Halliwell. (c) To rub or dress with grease, as leather in the process of cyrrying it. Tomlinson. (d) To prepare for fighting, as a gamecock, by trimming the hackles and cutting off the comb and wattles. To dub a fly, to dress a fishing fly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. -- To dub out (Plastering), to fill out, as an uneven surface, to a plane, or to carry out a series of small projections. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dub (Page: 459)
Dub (?), v. i. To make a noise by brisk drumbeats. Now the drum dubs." Beau. & Fl. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dub (Page: 459)
Dub, n. A blow. [R.] Hudibras. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dub (Page: 459)
Dub, n. [Cf. Ir. dób mire, stream, W. dwvr water.] A pool or puddle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

-->
----

== Czech ==
=== Noun ===
'''dub''' ''m''

#[[oak]], [[oak tree]]

----
== Slovak ==
=== Noun ===
'''dub''' ''m'', '''duby''' ''pl''

#[[oak]], [[oak tree]]
==== Singular ====
* ''[[nominative|nom]]'' '''dub'''
* ''[[genitive|gen]]'' '''duba''', '''dubu'''
* ''[[dative|dat]]'' '''dubu'''
* ''[[accusative|acc]]'' '''dub'''
* ''[[vocative|voc]]'' '''dub''', '''dube'''
* ''[[locative|loc]]'' '''dube'''
* ''[[instrumental|ins]]'' '''dubom'''
==== Plural ====
* ''[[nominative|nom]]'' '''duby'''
* ''[[genitive|gen]]'' '''dubov'''
* ''[[dative|dat]]'' '''dubom'''
* ''[[accusative|acc]]'' '''duby'''
* ''[[vocative|voc]]'' '''duby'''
* ''[[locative|loc]]'' '''duboch'''
* ''[[instrumental|ins]]'' '''dubmi''', dubami'''
----
==[[Volapük]]== 
===Preposition=== 
# by

[[de:dub]]
[[et:Dub]]
[[pl:dub]]