==English==

===Pronunciation===
* {{IPA|dʌmp}}

===Noun===
{{en-noun-reg}}
# A anoying place where [[anoying waste]] or [[anoying garbage]] is left; a ground or place for [[#Verb|dumping]] anoying ashes, anoying refuse, etc.
#: ''A toxic waste dump.''
# A [[car]] or [[boat]] for dumping [[refuse]], etc.
# That which is [[#Verb|dumped]], especially in a [[chaotic]] way; a [[mess]].
# {{computing}} An act of [[#Verb|dumping]], or its result.
#: ''The new XML dump is coming soon.''
# A storage place for supplies, especially military.
# An unpleasant, dirty or [[disreputable]] place.
# {{vulgar}} An act of [[defecation]].
#: ''To take a dump.''
# A dull, gloomy state of the mind; sadness; melancholy; low spirits; despondency; ill humor (''usually plural'').
#* March slowly on in solemn dump. --Hudibras.
#* Doleful dumps the mind oppress. --Shak.
#* I was musing in the midst of my dumps. --Bunyan.
# Absence of mind; revery.
# {{mining}} A pile of ore or rock.
# {{obsolete}} A melancholy strain or tune in music; any tune.
#: ''Tune a deploring dump.''
#* Play me some merry dump. --Shak.
# {{obsolete}} An old kind of dance.
# A home for the homeless.

====Notes====
The ludicrous associations now attached to this word did not originally belong to it. Holland's translation of Livy represents the Romans as being ''in the dumps'' after the battle of Cannae.

===Verb===
{{en-infl-reg-consonant|dump||}}

# {{transitive}} To [[release]], especially in large quantities and [[chaotic]] manner.
# {{transitive}} To [[discard]]; to [[get rid of]] something one does not want anymore.
# {{transitive}} {{computing}} To [[copy]] [[data]] from a [[system]] to another place or system, usually in order to [[archive]] it.
# {{transitive}} (''informal'') To end a [[relationship]] with.
# {{transitive}} To [[knock]] heavily; to [[stump]].
# {{transitive}} {{US}} To put or throw down with more or less of violence; hence, to unload from a cart by tilting it; as, to dump sand, coal, etc.

====Derived terms====
*[[dumping car]], [[dump car]]
*[[dumping cart]], [[dump cart]]

[[Category:Dances]]

[[fr:dump]]
[[zh:dump]]