{{wikipedia}}
==English==

===Etymology===
Middle English from Old English.

===Noun===
{{en-noun|-}}

#[[Manure]]; animal [[excrement]].
#:'''Quotations'''
#:*Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread '''dung''' upon your faces, even the '''dung''' of your solemn feasts; and one shall take you away with it.&nbsp; &mdash; Malichi 2:3.
#:*'''1605''': Poor Tom, that [[eat]]s the swimming [[frog]], the [[toad]], the [[todpole]], the [[wall-newt]], and the [[water]]; that in the [[fury]] of his [[heart]], when the [[foul]] [[fiend]] [[rage]]s, eats cow-[[dung]] for [[sallet]]s; [[swallow]]s the old [[rat]] and the ditch-[[dog]]; [[drink]]s the [[green]] [[mantle]] of the [[stand]]ing [[pool]]... &mdash; William Shakespeare, ''King Lear'', Act III, Scene IV, line 129.
#:*'''1882''': The [[labourer]] at the [[dung]] [[cart]] is [[paid]] at 3d. or 4d. a day; and on one [[estate]], Lullington, [[scatter]]ing [[dung]] is paid a 5d. the [[hundred]] [[heap]]s. &mdash;  James Edwin Thorold Rogers, ''A History of Agriculture and Prices in England'', Volume 4, page 496.

====Derived terms====
*[[dung beetle]]
*[[dungy]]

====Translations====
{{top}}
*Albanian: [[pleh]] {{m}}, [[bajgë]] {{f}}
*Catalan: [[adob]] {{m}}, [[fem]] {{m}}
*Chinese: [[糞]], [[粪]] (fèn)
*Croatian: [[gnoj]] {{m}}, [[gnojivo]] {{n}}
*Czech: [[hnůj]] {{m}}, [[mrva]] {{f}}, [[trus]] {{m}}
*Dutch: [[mest]] {{m}}
*Finnish: [[lanta]]
*German: [[Dünger]] {{m}}, [[Mist]] {{m}}
*Greek: [[κοπριά]] (kopriá) {{f}}
{{mid}}
*Hungarian: [[trágya]]
*Japanese: [[肥料]]
*Korean: [[똥거름]] (ddonggeoreum)
*[[Pitjantjatjara]]: [[kuna]]
*Romanian: [[gunoi]] {{f}} and {{m}}, [[baligă]] {{f}}
*Russian: [[навоз]] (navóz) {{m}}, [[помёт]] (pomjót) {{m}}, [[кал]] (kal) {{m}}
*Slovak: [[hnoj]] {{m}}
*Somali: [[xaar-walwaal]]
{{bottom}}

===Verb===
{{en-verb}}

#{{transitive}} To fertilize with dung.
#{{transitive}} (''Calico Printring'') To [[immerse]] or [[steep]], as [[calico]], in a [[bath]] of [[hot]] [[water]] containing [[cow]] [[dung]], done to [[remove]] the [[superfluous]] [[mordant]].
#{{intransitive}} To [[void]] excrement.

====Translations====
'''to fertilize with dung'''
{{top}}
*Finnish: [[lannoittaa]]
{{mid}}
*Russian: [[удобрять]], [[унавоживать]]
{{bottom}}

[[Category:English concrete nouns]]
[[Category:English intransitive verbs]]
[[Category:English nouns]]
[[Category:English transitive verbs]]
[[Category:English verbs]]
[[Category:Uncountable]]

[[io:dung]]
[[pl:dung]]
[[zh:dung]]