{{zh-forms|[[金屋]][[藏]][[娇]]|[[金屋藏嬌]]}}
==Mandarin==
===Etymology===
Literally: [[to]] [[keep]] [[w:Empress Chen Jiao|(Empress Chen) Jiao]] (inside one's) [[golden]] [[house]]
*''c.'' '''32 - 92:''' [[w:Ban Gu|Ban Gu]], [[漢武帝]][[故事]] (The Story of [[w:Emperor Wu of Han|Emperor Wu of Han]])
*: [[帝]][[以]][[乙]][[酉]][[年]][[七月]][[七]][[日]][[生]][[于]][[猗]][[兰]][[殿]]。 [[年]][[四]][[岁]]，[[立]][[为]][[胶东]][[王]]。 [[数]][[岁]]，[[长]][[公主]][[嫖]][[抱]][[置]][[膝]][[上]]，[[问]][[曰]]：「[[儿]][[欲]][[得]][[妇]][[不]]？」 [[胶东]][[王]][[曰]]：「[[欲]][[得]][[妇]]。」 [[长]][[主]][[指]][[左右]][[长]][[御]][[百]][[余]][[人]]，[[皆]][[云]][[不]][[用]]。 [[末]][[指]][[其]][[女]][[问]][[曰]]：「[[阿]][[娇]][[好]][[不]]？」 [[于是]][[乃]][[笑]][[对]][[曰]]：「[[好]]！ [[若]][[得]][[阿]]'''娇'''[[作]][[妇]]，[[应当|当]][[作]]'''金屋贮'''[[之]][[也]]。」
*:: The [[w:Emperor Wu of Han|Emperor]] was born in the Hall of the Pliant Orchid on the seventh day of the seventh lunar month in the year of the rooster under the second stem.<ref>August 27, 156 BCE</ref>  When he was four years old, he was made Prince of Jiaodong<ref>a small state in present day [[w:Shandong|Shandong]] Province</ref>.  When he was not that old, Elder Princess Liu Piao<ref>[[w:Emperor Wu of Han|Emperor Wu of Han]]'s aunt</ref> sat him on her knee and asked, "Would you like to have a wife?"  The Prince of Jiaodong said, "Yes, I would like a wife."  Elder Princess pointed to the hundreds of attendants on her left and right, but the prince said no to all of them.  The last one she pointed to was her own daughter, "Is A-Jiao<ref>[[w:Empress Chen Jiao|Empress Chen Jiao]], the daughter of Princess Liu Piao (A-Jiao is informal, similar to how we say Suzy instead of Susan in English)</ref> alright?" asked the Elder Princess.  The Prince smiled and said, "Good! If I can have A-'''Jiao''' for my wife, I should build a '''golden house''' where I may '''keep''' her. (Wiktionary translation)

<references />


===Idiom===
{{PAGENAME}} (''[[Pinyin]]'' [[jīnwū]] [[cáng]] [[jiāo]])

# to take a [[concubine]]
# to keep a [[mistress]] in a [[tuck]]ed [[away]] in a [[luxurious]] [[house]] or [[apartment]]

===Synonyms===
*[[金屋贮娇]]

===External links===
*[http://www.google.cn/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-CN&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E7%B4%A2&as_epq=%E9%87%91%E5%B1%8B%E8%97%8F%E5%A8%87&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.cn&as_rights= Google hits: .cn]
*[http://www.google.com.tw/search?as_q=&num=10&hl=zh-TW&btnG=Google+%E6%90%9C%E5%B0%8B&as_epq=%E9%87%91%E5%B1%8B%E8%97%8F%E5%AC%8C&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_occt=any&as_dt=i&as_sitesearch=.tw&as_rights=&safe=images Google hits: .tw]
*[http://humanum.arts.cuhk.edu.hk/cgi-bin/agrep-lindict?query=%AA%F7%AB%CE%C2%C3%BC%62 Lin Yu-tang Chinese-English Dictionary of Modern Usage]

[[Category:zh-cn:Idioms|jin1wu1cang2jiao1]]

[[zh:金屋藏娇]]